This revised and expanded Player's Handbook is the essential reference for 
every fifth edition DUNGEONS & DRAGONS player. It contains rules for 
character creation and advancement, exploration, combat, equipment, spells, 
and much more. 


Create fantastic D&D“ heroes from the wide selection of character origins, 
classes, and subclasses provided. Explore ancient ruins and deadly dungeons. 
Battle monsters while searching for legendary treasures. Gain experience and 


power as you trek across unchartedili ТАБ with your companions. 


дсотралоп ГД, ЕШ Р TNT MINOS 
Guide (2024) апаа ДЕ, NR i, 


OF THE COAST 


ISBN: 978-0-7869-6951-7 


9"780786"969517 
Sug. Retail: US $49.99 
Printed in USA D37090000 


iih 7 


DUNGEON S ёср pi L со 5 


LI 
di. It 


CREDITS 


Lal ed dnm we Nee M РЕ. М. on з Корані Ay JE 
Draig ers Peewee Pure Bee Petree Г Werin Cá - ) Ж, b we he тетен fta 
Say Wee ng e armes Oye жерды буге Soa. Crag | ipere host Sweet Forres 
ides Oni mcm Chee bee! leet) Mamm (= Aio мер, Was Tee Brae Valera Merely Verges A 
"e vt v» beg Magus éd. Corey Ve Las Wale ке 
блоги [572 Carter [mw + Бане, Ado М р Ny c we (bel Obie Bahari Ses Domen Wiles 
Pon b mma mS ә re AV" LIRE 
Prep test Anshnis Pon { „жет, (heer) ua Do fee Ре у Come? Art Dmm os ber 
Жукі deo] Сотер Artate: Ler ^mi iren so аге kre. Mw 
trees pole Creba Ties аьел Vh Colette 
Ac Orem bm oro d e| ha> bet Nos Kobe o 


Lra Ocas ^53 che kof) pes Баск £^ Ocha 


Come faarao: W, 1 — ja salawa Lush Dajana Davee: Chow Papag po ven 
tere fevrye + Е t ace) Meder own Pese, Fen Aresen aree has 
+ с ма Пага ае « bok sie - Mb omma Ciomols-^ t, wh Rasa eyte Mois "Een 
bore Mitos Roainad putas def ay am í t Moser pret Ata C — 


TIT Се фуу. Кө 


"+ w sÁ eve. Hy Chinor, We " Prodecerz Cun "x esi 0 bertan ora борро? 
sopoia Cepkin hatar С ља ч 4256 heey 
lanes, jongs Ое йз. от Org Aids Dorringuez "E Prt Оренте Laws Dew lao Soort Geet 
-FE etn Chabot jesper por, Warce бе аб, Mita маре Teches-wra 7 4 Cocona, Mangus Костас. Orin Yeo 
кивота, Aware bol. Pet beng $543 P i ade >» Pre pnm Spa bul emn aie 
* = Corte, М х= е Cop te tum bury » ed ¢ 
чү * А мж іва revised comer! hor 
t progr Metre Hol Nac sarei omae А ач 
— ' "rrt sed echar ^v 
—.* "m wes, | эче Саб mathe Кык, Комга AS E fe tC [o rry tom p (Л) dif: 2E — 2] 
Feng » 
aden. Nexto Deraedée Lexi. Loca Leber. Т tus Larter, Lon 
4 ‘ rt et (Nn 
Sisaria fusil Mackey * ө МАн Ant bsf равай Based an the Popri PasdiSoed (2214) Genigeed эу 
кту k Гањ eac Tors La? ^. Le 
сео Mar, Кайа Macorics Marcela odei. bse Netige е "^ wed| 3 Ы s LaP la, Pere Lom 
МА «с M t е i "dem Thom hip 
Алаа М сйс Сок; Morte Cae Wios Зак а к » sas). "ode п. jer і 
Mascate lo. Martin Sonet oder Mar, Orad Ascer Nas в bad оз tde 290 га! paras gestes by 
“Sond "dos bel Oh te wir Alas Pe Pen "Y ary Страх ari Cove Arren eet fet feeioomd » may 
sheers tn the past 30 years 
wor. (уллуз Pyetedo Ard ea Гурго Fol sta Azti Pere 


On тма Coven Ом toe Act-Covee 
ated Oy à М Dragon thee ae, Velarde sat the hero LL >ш tta Jascw; (lores mb NC +e ORE {ыл 


vas Cul! tw ww eray gare! umi n Per де зл w ms ahas РГ m. nd "MES CUTEM UM 
terari by Iye ja voten El ILE 


eTynittececnm mg 


Fast Pint р хито е: 2724 UK 

283412 C ca 

a * К a Wist © e “ „== i 3.4 * < = DL I Combe Phe oo «2 wero 

Ves à eet sw te Meee Leeqees Wares) (ose (est ew af ee morae ш Fe now Settee: gnome ber e (te s cores bone 

shaccq Lass oe 9o datas of © ware of ee Cage ee UA жы "- ^ oam ^ —— l4 ol RR F cen 2,5 6. {ча сы» 4 
md cede Vas JT" ө " " лана 4 sl en TP UI ' banet etr - 
-s= pv "ww be Co 

ad „Ла Cie vu T PS bo К? Oe TEM x ^ Mares bo NA Ca ^ aloe dene м жже 

t — tm lesin „э he # mm ote P к name A, tenu] roe ТЯ * 58 


Lob age: atone „= “ at " те = "t +) & ww LONE 1A AU 


CONTENTS 


Welcome to Adventure 
What You Need............ 
Using This Book........... 
Worlds of Adventure 


Ch. 1: Playing the Game. 
Player or DM?.. 
Rhythm of Play... 


An Ongoing Game.. 8 
ісе ненка EE асо А 9 
ТПе ох А Ше 10 
D20 Tests ............... .. 10 
Ability Checks. .. 10 
Savings GOWS Н 11 
Аас“ КОП... ао 12 


Advantage/Disadvantage. 


Proficlency secrets ires 1%) 
ACCIONS essersi anirnar eoe eere TERI Te 15 
Воп спос 15 
Reactions............ .15 
5$оо1а!Ипїегасйоп ых ыиы 16 
Exploration....... 19 
Vision and Light . 19 
Нате 219 
Interacting with Objects.. .19 
Нагасаѕ жии зыл .. 20 
Travel.. .. 20 


Movement and Position 
Making an Attack 
Ranged Attacks 
Melee Attacks 


Damage and Healing. 
ДИҢ ODES ИНИН 
Damage Rolls 
леса 
Saving Throws and Damage... 
Damage Types 


Resistance and Vulnerability .............. 28 

Immunity... 

Healing. 

Dropping to О Hit Роїпї$...................... 28 

Temporary Hit Роїпї$............................. 29 
Conditions кенеше кенмин ettet ettet 29 
Ch. 2: Creating a Character ................. 32 


Create Your Character 
Level Advancement................ 
Starting at Higher Levels 
Multiclassing.... 
Trinkets 


Path of the Wild Heart 
Path of the World Tree 
Path of the Zealot 


DILE 


Bard Spell List ..... 
College of Dance 


MILD 


College of Glamour................... e 65 
College of Lore... 
College of Valor... 


Clerie. tert RES ..68 
Cleric Spell List... 7 
Life Domain...... 73 
Light Domain... 74 
Trickery Domain 75 
War Domain... 76 

Druidean 78 
Druid Spell List... 82 
Circle of the Land... .84 
Circle of the Moon. .86 
CircleoftheSea—— ——— 87 
Circle ofthe Stars кс шы 88 

O НВ 90 
E OVEN eR 93 
ChampilOn.— ННН 96 
Eldritch’ Knights 96 
Psi Warrior....... .98 

Моп иша зы 100 
Warrior of Мегсу.. ..104 
Warrior of Shadow....... 105 
Warrior of the Elements ..... ...106 
Warrior of the Open Hand................. 107 

Paladin 


Paladin Spell List... 
Oath of Devotion 
Оаро Согу ЕНЕС 
Oath of the Ancients 


Ranger Spell List... 
Beast:Master. 5... eerie masses 
Ееу`У/апаегег ETE 
Gloom Stalker. 


Arcane Trickster 
Assassin ............ 
Soulknife.. 
Thief....... 
Sorcerer. esses eete E N 
Metamagic Options.. 


Sorcerer Spell List .............................. 
Aberrant Sorcery ................ s 
Clockwork Sorcery . 
Draconic Ѕогсегу..... 
Wild Magic Sorcery 
Warlock 
Eldritch Invocation Options.............. 155 
Warlock Spell List................................ 157 
Archfey Patronia.....sssssessssssecssssseesssesesseseee 159 
Celestial Patron. .160 
Fiend Patron.............. .161 
Great Old One Patron. „162 
Мата 164 
Wizard Spell List.................. s 168 
FAD] Uren eec ERNST DR ES 172 
БУА Әйтте ттт ттт тта Өл 173 
EVOKenD. cce E RE 174 
Шајо а нарина 175 


Ch. 4: Character Огірдіпѕ...................... 176 
Origin Components....... 
Background Descriptions 

Acolyte-. e ereeceeeca 


Artisan... ..178 
Charlatan onc nine 179 
Criminali гиле. Мы НЕ 179 


Entertainer... ..180 
Farmer... ..180 
GUAT а 288... Е EE EE 181 
бше tec re 181 
Hermit... ..182 
Merchant. ..182 
Noble... Rr restare Н СО ee 183 
CES ee eret 183 
Sailor ..184 
Scribe ..184 
Soldier... recte ..185 


УМауғагег........................... 
Species Descriptions 
Aasimar ................. 


ЮгагопБОгп`..:...-...————==- TEE 187 
Dwarf ...... .188 
Ет .189 
Спомен 191 
Goliath ..... .192 
Halfling.... .193 
FRU AN ассои 194 
ONC EE ID 195 
Tiefling....—.— — ETE 196 
Ch:5iFeats... —— an АЕ 198 
Feat Descriptions ..199 
Origin Feats...... .200 
General Feats ........ .202 


Fighting Style Feats... 
Epic Boon Feats... 


Adventuring Gear...... 
Mounts and Vehicles 
Services 


Ch. 7: Spells ....... 
Gaining Spells. 
Casting Spells... ES 
Spell Descriptions 


СИТЕТТИН" 


App. A: The Мийіуегѕе........................ 344 
The Material Realms .....ssssssssscccceccesssveees 344 
Transitive Planes... 


The Inner Planes... 344 
The Outer Planes.................. .344 
App. B: Creature Stat Blocks 346 
App. C: Rules Glossary . 360 
Index 


INTRODUCTION 


WELCOME TO ADVENTURE 


— SS = “SR 


THIS STORY BEGAN 50 YEARS AGO, AND YOU'RE PART OF 
it. In the 1970s, Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson created a 
game of make-believe that fused rules with storytelling. 
There'd never been anything like it: a game in which each 
player made their own fantasy character and teamed up 
with their friends to go on quests. One person served as the 
narrator and referee—the Dungeon Master—and did every- 
thing they could to challenge and delight the other players. 
That game was, of course, the first version of Dungeons & 
Dragons, and you're now reading its latest version. 

Over the decades, millions of people have played D&D, 
and scores of writers, game designers, and artists have 
made their mark on it through its various editions. When 
our team released the current edition in 2014, we were 
humbled by how many of you loved it. This revised ver- 
sion of it is a salute to all of you—those of you who've been 
playing D&D for years, those of you who've contributed to 
the game through your feedback, and those of you who are 
about to experience the joy of playing it for the first time. 

As a teenager, I met both Gary and Dave. I even spent 
an entire day with Gary, and we did what all D&D fans do: 
share stories about our adventures in the D&D multiverse. 
Tinvite you to embark on such adventures anew. Share as 
much laughter as you can with your friends. Use only the 
rules that serve your fun, and always follow your group's 
bliss. So many people have been enjoying the magic of D&D 

for half a century. Let's keep it blazing for another 50 years! 
—Jeremy Crawford 


i RE YOU READY TO EMBARK ON FANTASY 

~} А adventures with your friends? DUNGEONS 

& DRAGONS invites you to play imaginary 
adventurers who delve into dungeons and other 
perilous locations together, face fearsome foes such 
as dragons, and build friendships forged amid fan- 
tastical dangers. 

Fueled by imagination and rules, D&D invites 
you to adopt a fantasy persona—a mighty Fighter, a 
cunning Rogue, a faithful Cleric, a magical Wizard, 
or something else—and then solve problems, fight 
monsters, and visit wondrous places. 

There's no winning and losing in D&D, at least 
not the way those terms are usually understood. 
Together you and friends create an exciting story 
of adventurers who confront perils. Sometimes an 


if 
Atl 


adventurer might come to a tragic end. Even so, the 
other adventurers can search for powerful magic to 
revive their fallen comrade, or the character’s player 
might create a new character to carry on. No matter 
what happens, if everyone has a good time and cre- 
ates a memorable story, they all win. 


WHAT YOU NEED 


Here's what you need to play D&D with one or more 

friends (a typical group has five people): 

Dungeon Master. One person takes on the role of 
the Dungeon Master (DM), the game's lead story- 
teller and referee. The DM creates adventures for 
the players' characters, who navigate its hazards 
and decide which paths to explore. The DM also 
narrates what they experience and plays the 
friends and foes they meet along the way. Even 
though the DM challenges the adventurers, the 
DM always strives to delight the whole group. 

Players. Each player creates an adventurer who 
teams up with the other players' adventurers. 
Working together, the group might explore a dark 
dungeon, a ruined city, a haunted castle, a lost 
temple, a lava-filled mountain, or another location 
described by the DM. The adventurers also solve 
puzzles, talk with other characters, battle fantas- 
tic monsters, and discover magic items and other 
treasure—all while supporting each other's fun. 


You also need these resources, either in physical 
form or on DnDBeyond.com: 


Player's Handbook. This book is your essential 
reference for the game's rules, and it guides you 
through making an adventurer of your own. 

Dungeon Master's Guide and Monster Manual. The 
first of these books guides the DM through creat- 
ing and running adventures, and the second holds 
hundreds of monsters to fill those adventures. 

аа р 

LEARN BY WATCHING 

A great way to learn the basics of D&D is to watch 
people play it. The Internet offers videos of D&D 
play that show off the tremendous range of possi- 
bilities the game offers. As you watch, pay atten- 
tion to the ways that some players help make the 
game fun for everyone in their group. The only 
audience you need to entertain when you're play- 
ing D&D is yourself and your group. 


Dice. You need a set of polyhedral dice (shown in 
chapter 1). You can find dice like these in game 
stores and from online retailers. Dice-rolling apps 
are also available. 


Character Sheet. To keep track of important in- 
formation about your character, you need a char- 
acter sheet, which can be as simple as a piece of 


paper you write notes on or as feature-rich as a 
digital record. 


The DM might also find these accessories useful: 


DM Screen. Many DMs like to use a screen to 
shield their notes and dice rolls from players. It's 
bad manners to peek over the screen! 

Miniatures and Battle Grid. Some DMs use a bat- 
tle grid and miniatures to run combat encounters, 
since they help everyone visualize the action. A 
battle grid can be anything marked out in l-inch 
squares, from disposable sheets of paper to poster 
maps. And miniatures range from simple tokens 
to detailed figurines. Online maps and miniatures 
are also available, including on DnDBeyond.com. 


UsING THIS BOOK 


Here’s what you'll find in this book: 


Chapter 1: Playing the Game. The first chapter ex- 
plains the fundamentals of the game, with exam- 
ples to help you understand how to play. 

Chapter 2: Creating a Character. Chapter 2 walks 
you through the steps of character creation. 

Chapter 3: Character Classes. Characters’ capa- 
bilities are largely determined by class, such as 
Fighter or Wizard. Chapter 3 offers twelve classes 
to choose from, along with forty-eight subclasses. 

Chapter 4: Character Origins. Background and 
species are key elements in defining a character's 
origin, which further shapes the character's abil- 
ities beyond the choice of class. Background and 
species options are presented in chapter 4. 

Chapter 5: Feats. The feats in chapter 5 are special 
features that characters gain as part of their back- 
ground and class. 

Chapter 6: Equipment. Armor, weapons, and ad- 
venturing gear are found in chapter 6. 

Chapter 7: Spells. This chapter contains descrip- 
tions of the spells that spellcasters can cast. 

Appendix A: The Multiverse. Here you'll find an 
overview of the magical multiverse where D&D 
adventures take place. 

Appendix B: Creature Stat Blocks. This appendix 
brims with game information for creatures that 
certain characters can befriend or transform into. 

Appendix C: Rules Glossary. The game's main 
rules terminology is summarized in this appendix, 
making it an invaluable reference during play. 


LL —————————————————————————— 


Wuat’s NEW IN THE 2024 VERSION? 

This is the 2024 version of the fifth edition Play- 
er's Handbook. If you've read the 2014 version, 
much of this book will feel familiar, since the fun- 
damental rules of the game are the same. But the 
book contains many new or redesigned elements, 
and the versions of things in this book replace 
versions from older books. Here are highlights: 


Streamlined Rules. The game's rules have been 
streamlined and are now supported by a rules 
glossary. 

Easier Character Creation. Using chapter 2, mak- 
ing a character is easier than ever before. 

Enhanced Classes. In chapter 3, every class and 
subclass has been enhanced with new options. 

Reimagined Origins. Explored in chapter 4, a 
character's origin is now defined by back- 
ground and species, each of which has been 
redesigned. 

Expanded Feats. In chapter 5, feats have been re- 
designed, with many feats added. 

Upgraded Weapons, Tools, and Crafting. Mastery 
properties transform how weapon wielders use 
their weapons, and every character can enjoy 
new tool and crafting rules in chapter 6. 

Dazzling Spells. Chapter 7 bursts with new spells 
and old ones that have been enhanced. 


If you can't find a rule, check the index. If a rule's 
name has changed from what was printed in the 
2014 Player's Handbook, the index points you to 
the new name. For example, if you look up Inspi- 
ration in the index, it points you to the rules for 
Heroic Inspiration in the rules glossary. 


WORLDS OF ADVENTURE 


The worlds of D&D glimmer with magic, monsters, 
and spectacular adventure. Launching from a foun- 
dation of medieval fantasy, these worlds soar with 
possibilities beyond those of our reality. 

D&D worlds exist in a multiverse and are con- 
nected to one another and to other planes of ex- 
istence. Some of the worlds have been published 
as official D&D settings, including the Greyhawk, 
Forgotten Realms, Dragonlance, Spelljammer, 
Planescape, Dark Sun, Eberron, and Ravenloft set- 
tings. Alongside these worlds are thousands more, 
created by generations of D&D players for their own 
games. Amid the richness of the multiverse, you 
might create a world of your own. 

The worlds of the multiverse share characteris- 
tics, but each world is set apart by its own history 
and geography. Your DM might set a campaign on 
one of these worlds or on a world of their own in- 
vention. Because there is so much variety among 
D&D worlds, check with your DM about the world 
of your upcoming adventures. 


INTRODUCTION | WELCOME TO ADVENTURE 


-~ Leader Ave anmo 


тч 


(5 


WHILE ADVENTURING IN THE DRAGONLANCE 
SETTING, THE SIBLINGS CARAMON MAJERE, 
RAISTLIN MAJERE, AND KITIARA UTH MATAR 
PROVOKE THE RAGE OF A WYVERN 


CHAPTER 1 


PLAYING THE GAME 


"77 MAGINATION IS A KEY INGREDIENT OF 
|| DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, a cooperative game 

> in which the characters that you roleplay em- 
bark on adventures together in fantasy worlds filled 
with monsters and magic. 

In D&D, the action takes place in the imaginations 
of the players, and it’s narrated by everyone to- 
gether. Here's a glimpse at what that looks like: 


Jared (as Dungeon Master): After your long journey, 
Castle Ravenloft towers before you. Crumbling 
towers of stone—perhaps abandoned guard- 
houses—loom over the approach. Beyond them, 
you see a gaping chasm disappearing into deep 
fog below. A lowered drawbridge spans the chasm, 
its chains creaking in the wind. Stone gargoyles 
stare down at you from the high walls, and a pale 
light spills into the courtyard from the open castle 
doors beyond. 

Phillip (as Gareth): | examine the gargoyles. | have a 
feeling they're not just statues! 

Maeve (as Mirabella): | want to see how sturdy the 
drawbridge is. Do I think we can cross it, or is it 
going to collapse under our weight? 

Jared: All right, one at a time. Phillip, Gareth's look- 
ing at the gargoyles? 

Phillip: Yeah. Is there any hint they might be crea- 
tures and not just decorations? 

Jared: Make an Intelligence check. 

Phillip: Does my Investigation skill apply? 

Jared: Sure! 

Phillip (rolling a d20): Ugh. Seven. 

Jared: They look like decorations to you. And Maeve, 
Mirabella is examining the drawbridge? 


The adventure continues from there, relying on 

the DM's descriptions to set the scenes. Later in the 
chapter, other examples of play focus on certain 
aspects of D&D play: social interaction, exploration, 
and combat. 


i 


RULES GLOSSARY 

If you read a rules term in this book and want to 
know its definition, consult the rules glossary, 
which is appendix C. This chapter provides an 
overview of how to play D&D and focuses on the 
big picture. Many places in this chapter reference 
that glossary. 


Е: оннан ee 2 


Lf 


PLAYER OR DM? 


To play D&D, you need one person to be the Dun- 
geon Master and other players (three to six are best) 
to play adventurers. Which role is right for you? 


BEING A PLAYER 


If you want to be one of the protagonists in your 
group’s adventures, consider being a player. Here’s 
what players do: 


Make a Character. Your character is your alter ego 
in the fantasy world of the game. After you read 
this chapter, use the rules in chapter 2 to create 
your character. 

Team Up. Your character joins the other players’ 
characters to form an adventuring party. These 
adventurers are allies who face challenges and 
fantastical situations together. Each character 
brings distinctive capabilities, which ideally com- 
plement those of the other characters. 

Venture Forth. Your character’s group explores 
locations and events presented by the DM. You 
can respond to them in any way you can imagine, 
guided by the rules in this book. Although the 
DM controls all the monsters you encounter, the 
DM isn’t your adversary. The DM guides your 
party's journey as your characters become more 
powerful. 


BEING THE DUNGEON MASTER 


If you want to be the mastermind of the game, con- 
sider being the DM. Here's what DMs do: 


Build Adventures. You prepare the adventures that 
the players experience. In the Dungeon Master's 
Guide, you'll find advice for how to create adven- 
tures and even whole worlds. 

Guide the Story. You narrate much of the action 
during play, describing locations and creatures 
that the adventurers face. The players decide what 
their characters do as they navigate hazards and 
choose what to explore. Then you use a combina- 
tion of imagination and the game's rules to deter- 
mine the results of the adventurers' decisions. 

Adjudicate the Rules. You oversee how the group 
uses the game's rules, making sure the rules serve 
the group's fun. You'll want to read the rest of this 
chapter to understand those rules, and you'll find 
the rules glossary essential. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


RHYTHM OF PLAY 

The three main pillars of D&D play are social in- 

teraction, exploration, and combat. Whichever one 

you're experiencing, the game unfolds according to 
this basic pattern: 

1: The Dungeon Master Describes a Scene. The 
DM tells the players where their adventurers are 
and what's around them (how many doors lead 
out of a room, what's on a table, and so on). 

2: The Players Describe What Their Characters 
Do. Typically, the characters stick together as 
they travel through a dungeon or another envi- 
ronment. Sometimes different adventurers do 
different things: one adventurer might search a 
treasure chest while a second examines a mys- 
terious symbol engraved on a wall and a third 
keeps watch for monsters. Outside combat, the 
DM ensures that every character has a chance to 
act and decides how to resolve their activity. In 
combat, the characters take turns. 

3: The DM Narrates the Results of the Adventur- 
ers' Actions. Sometimes resolving a task is easy. 
If an adventurer walks across a room and tries 
to open a door, the DM might say the door opens 
and describe what lies beyond. But the door 
might be locked, the floor might hide a trap, or 
some other circumstance might make it challeng- 
ing for an adventurer to complete a task. In those 
cases, the DM might ask the player to roll a die to 
help determine what happens. Describing the re- 
sults often leads to another decision point, which 
brings the game back to step 1. 


This pattern holds during every game session (each 
time you sit down to play D&D), whether the adven- 
turers are talking to a noble, exploring a ruin, or 
fighting a dragon. In certain situations—particularly 
combat-the action is more structured, and every- 
one takes turns. 


tlm 


EXCEPTIONS SUPERSEDE GENERAL RULES 
General rules govern each part of the game. For 
example, the combat rules tell you that melee 
attacks use Strength and ranged attacks use 
Dexterity. That’s a general rule, and a general 
rule is in effect as long as something in the game 
doesn't explicitly say otherwise. 

The game also includes elements— class fea- 
tures, feats, weapon properties, spells, magic 
items, monster abilities, and the like—that some- 
times contradict a general rule. When an excep- 
tion and a general rule disagree, the exception 
wins. For example, if a feature says you can make 
melee attacks using your Charisma, you can do 
so, even though that statement disagrees with 
the general rule. 


up —————— 


8 CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


Маслено iae 


AN ONGOING GAME 

Sometimes a session of D&D is a complete game in 
itself (often called a “one-shot”), where you play a 
short adventure that lasts for just one session. More 
often, though, D&D sessions are connected in a 
longer adventure that takes several sessions to com- 
plete, and adventures can be strung together into a 
larger narrative called a campaign. 

A campaign is like a TV series, while an adventure 
is like a season of the series. And a game session is 
like a single episode—it might be self-contained, but 
it usually links to the larger plot if there is one. 


ADVENTURES 
An adventure might be created by the Dungeon 
Master or purchased (the examples of play in this 
chapter are inspired by a published adventure, Curse 
of Strahd). In either case, an adventure features a 
fantastic setting, such as an underground dungeon, 
a wondrous wilderness, or a magic-filled city. It in- 
cludes a cast of nonplayer characters controlled by 
the DM. Often one of the NPCs is a villain whose 
agenda drives much of an adventure's action. 

During an adventure, the adventurers explore 
environments, events, and creatures presented by 
the DM. Battles, traps, negotiations, mysteries, and 
more arise during these explorations. 

Adventures vary in length and complexity. A 
short adventure might present only a few challenges 
and take only one session to complete. A long ad- 
venture might involve many combats, interactions, 
and other challenges and take dozens of sessions. 


CAMPAIGNS 


A campaign is a series of adventures with a consis- 
tent group of adventurers following the narrative. 

Some campaigns are episodic, where each adven- 
ture is its own tale and not much besides the player 
characters links it to the next one. Other campaigns 
involve long-running plots, a cast of recurring 
NPCs, and themes that span multiple adventures, 
leading toward a climactic conclusion. 

As with adventures, a DM might create a cam- 
paign from scratch, assemble a campaign from 
published adventures, or mix homemade material 
with published material. And the campaign might 
take place in a world of the РМ" creation or in a 
published campaign setting, such as the Forgotten 
Realms or Greyhawk (the latter is described in the 
Dungeon Master's Guide). 
а... O 

ROUND Down 
Whenever you divide or multiply a number in the 


* game, round down if you end up with a fraction, 


even if the fraction is one-half or greater. Some 
rules make an exception and tell you to round up. 


po—————————— 


DICE 
Dice add randomness to the game. They help deter- 


mine whether characters and monsters are success- 
ful at the things they attempt. 


DicE NOTATION 


The dice used in D&D are referred to by the letter 

d followed by the die’s number of sides: d4, d6, d8, 
а10, 412, and 420. For instance, a d6 is a six-sided 
die (the cube that many games use). The illustration 
on this page shows what each die looks like. 

When you need to roll dice, the rules tell you how 
many dice to roll of a certain type, along with any 
numbers to add or subtract. For example, “3d8 + 5” 
means you roll three eight-sided dice, add them to- 
gether, and add 5 to the total. 


PERCENTILE DICE 

The rules sometimes refer to a d100. While such 
dice exist, the common way to roll 1d100 uses a pair 
of ten-sided dice numbered from O to 9, known as 
percentile dice. One die—that you designate before 
rolling—gives the tens digit, and the other gives the 
ones digit. If you roll a 7 for the tens digit and a 1 for 
the ones digit, for example, the number rolled is 71. 
Two Os represent 100. 

Some ten-sided dice are numbered in tens (00, 10, 
20, and so on), making it easier to distinguish the 
tens digit from the ones digit. In this case, a roll of 
70 and 1 is 71, and OO and O is 100. 


D3 

The same d notation appears in the expression 
“1d3,” even though it's rare to find dice with only 
three sides. To simulate rolling 1d3, roll 1d6 and di- 
vide the number rolled by 2 (round up). 


WHAT ARE DICE FOR? 


Here are the most common uses of dice in D&D. 


D20 TEsT 

The 20-sided die (d20) is the most important die 
you'll use in the game. It's central to the core me- 
chanic—called D20 Tests—the game uses to deter- 
mine whether creatures succeed or fail at the things 


D4 


(Ones Dici) 


Á 


INTERPRETING DIE ROLLS IN THE STORY 
Part of the fun of D&D is interpreting what die 
rolls mean in the story. The randomness that dice 
bring often introduces the unexpected: an expert 
fails, a novice succeeds, or any number of other 
twists. When a D20 Test or another roll produces 
a surprise, the Dungeon Master often gives a fun 
description of what happened. If you're a player, 
look for opportunities to interpret your charac- 
ter's die rolls and describe why things unfolded 
unexpectedly or even humorously. 
a pec———————————— ÓÉÁgeát 
they attempt during the game (see “D20 Tests" 
later in this chapter). You roll a d20 whenever your 
character tries to do something that the DM decides 
has a chance of both success and failure. The higher 
your roll, the more likely it is that you succeed. 


DAMAGE 

The most common use for dice other than the d20 
is to determine damage. When you make a suc- 
cessful attack roll (one kind of D20 Test), you roll 
damage to see how effective the attack is. When you 
cast a spell, you might also roll damage. Different 
weapons and spells use different dice for damage. 
For example, a Dagger uses 1d4, a Greataxe uses 
1d12, and a Fireball spell uses 8d6. 


RANDOM TABLES 

Occasionally, you'll see a table that uses a die roll to 
generate a random result. On these tables, you'll see 
a die expression, such as 410 or d100, in the header 
of the leftmost column. Roll that die, and find the 
number you rolled (or a range containing that num- 
ber) in that column. Read across that row for the 
result. For example, the Trinkets table in chapter 2 
uses a 4100. 


PERCENTAGE CHANCES 

Sometimes you might see a rule describing a per- 
centage chance of something happening. For exam- 
ple, a rule might say there is a 5 percent chance of 
something happening. You can determine whether 
that thing happens by rolling percentile dice; if the 
roll is equal to or less than the percentage chance (a 
O1 to O5, in this example), it happens. 


(Tens Digit) 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


9 


THE SIX ABILITIES 

All creatures—characters and monsters—have six 
abilities that measure physical and mental charac- 
teristics, as shown on the Ability Descriptions table. 


ABILITY DESCRIPTIONS 

Ability Score Measures ... 

Physical might 

Agility, reflexes, and balance 


Strength 
Dexterity 
Constitution Health and stamina 

Reasoning and memory 


Intelligence 
Wisdom Perceptiveness and mental fortitude 
Charisma Confidence, poise, and charm 


ABILITY SCORES 


Each ability has a score from 1 to 20, although some 
monsters have a score as high as 30. The score 
represents the magnitude of an ability. The Ability 
Scores table summarizes what the scores mean. 


ABILITY SCORES 
Score Meaning 
1 This is the lowest a score can normally go. 
If an effect reduces a score to 0, that effect 
explains what happens. 
2-9 This represents a weak capability. 
10-11 This represents the human average. 
12-19 This represents a strong capability. 
20 This is the highest an adventurer's score 
can go unless a feature says otherwise. 
21-29 This represents an extraordinary capability. 
30 This is the highest a score can go. 


ABILITY MODIFIERS 


Each ability has a modifier that you apply whenever 
you make a D20 Test with that ability (explained in 
“D20 Tests”). An ability modifier is derived from its 
score, as shown in the Ability Modifiers table. 


ABILITY MODIFIERS 


Score Modifier Score Modifier 
] -5 16-17 +3 
2-3 -4 18-19 +4 
4-5 -3 20-21 +5 
6-7 -2 22-23 +6 
8-9 -] 24-25 +7 
10-11 +0 26-27 +8 
12-13 +1 28—29 +9 
14-15 +2 30 +10 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


D20 TESTS 

When the outcome of an action is uncertain, the 

game uses a d20 roll to determine success or failure. 

These rolls are called D20 Tests, and they come in 

three kinds: ability checks, saving throws, and at- 

tack rolls. They follow these steps: 

1: Roll 1d20. You always want to roll high. If the 
roll has Advantage or Disadvantage (described 
later in this chapter), you roll two 4205, but 
you use the number from only one of them—the 
higher one if you have Advantage or the lower 
one if you have Disadvantage. 

2: Add Modifiers. Add these modifiers to the num- 
ber rolled on the d20: 

The Relevant Ability Modifier. This chapter and 
the rules glossary explain which ability modifiers 
to use for various D20 Tests. 

- Your Proficiency Bonus If Relevant. Each crea- 
ture has a Proficiency Bonus, a number added 
when making a D20 Test that uses something, 
such as a skill, in which the creature has profi- 
ciency. See “Proficiency” later in this chapter. 
Circumstantial Bonuses and Penalties. A class 
feature, a spell, or another rule might give a bo- 
nus or penalty to the die roll. 


3: Compare the Total to a Target Number. If the 
total of the d20 and its modifiers equals or ex- 
ceeds the target number, the D20 Test succeeds. 
Otherwise, it fails. The Dungeon Master deter- 
mines target numbers and tells players whether 
their rolls are successful. The target number 
for an ability check or a saving throw is called a 
Difficulty Class (DC). The target number for an 
attack roll is called an Armor Class (AC), which 
appears on a character sheet or in a stat block 
(see the rules glossary). 


ABILITY CHECKS 


An ability check represents a creature using talent 
and training to try to overcome a challenge, such 
as forcing open a stuck door, picking a lock, enter- 
taining a crowd, or deciphering a cipher. The DM 
and the rules often call for an ability check when a 
creature attempts something other than an attack 
that has a chance of meaningful failure. When the 
outcome is uncertain and narratively interesting, 
the dice determine the result. 


ABILITY MODIFIER 

An ability check is named for the ability modifier it 
uses: a Strength check, an Intelligence check, and so 
on. Different ability checks are called for in differ- 
ent situations, depending on which ability is most 
relevant. See the Ability Check Examples table for 
examples of each check's use. 


f. 
[han 
A О2о TEST CAN RESULT IN A DRAMATIC SUCCESS, 
sa 
А SIMPLE ACCOMPLISHMENT, OR A CATASTRODHE. 


ABILITY CHECK EXAMPLES 


Ability Make a Check То... 
Strength Lift, push, pull, or break something 
Dexterity Move nimbly, quickly, or quietly 


Constitution Push your body beyond normal limits 


Intelligence Reason or remember 

Wisdom Notice things in the environment or 
in creatures' behavior 

Charisma Influence, entertain, or deceive 


PROFICIENCY BONUS 

Add your Proficiency Bonus to an ability check 
when the DM determines that a skill or tool pro- 
ficiency is relevant to the check and you have 

that proficiency. For example, if a rule refers to a 
Strength (Acrobatics or Athletics) check, you can 
add your Proficiency Bonus to the check if you have 
proficiency in the Acrobatics or Athletics skill. See 
"Proficiency" later in this chapter for more informa- 
tion about skill and tool proficiencies. 


DIFFICULTY CLASS 

The Difficulty Class of an ability check represents 
the task's difficulty. The more difficult the task, the 
higher its DC. The rules provide DCs for certain 


checks, but the DM ultimately sets them. The Typi- 
cal Difficulty Classes table presents a range of possi- 
ble DCs for ability checks. 


TYPICAL DIFFICULTY CLASSES 


Task Difficulty DC Task Difficulty DC 
Very easy 5 Hard 20 
Easy 10 Very hard 25 
Medium 15 Nearly impossible 30 


SAVING THROWS m 
A saving throw—also called a save—represents an 
attempt to evade or resist a threat, such as a fiery 
explosion, a blast of poisonous gas, or a spell trying 
to invade your mind. You don't normally choose to 
make a save; you must make one because your char- 
acter or a monster (if you're the DM) is at risk. A 
save's result is detailed in the effect that caused it. 

If you don't want to resist the effect, you can 
choose to fail the save without rolling. 


ABILITY MODIFIER 

Saving throws are named for the ability modifiers 
they use: a Constitution saving throw, a Wisdom 
saving throw, and so on. Different saving throws 
are used to resist different kinds of effects, as shown 
on the Saving Throw Examples table. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME Il 


SAVING THROW EXAMPLES 
Make a Save To... 


Ability 

Strength Physically resist direct force 
Dexterity Dodge out of harm’s way 
Constitution Endure a toxic hazard 
Intelligence ^ Recognize an illusion as fake 
Wisdom Resist a mental assault 
Charisma Assert your identity 


PROFICIENCY BONUS 

You add your Proficiency Bonus to your saving 
throw if you have proficiency in that kind of save. 
See “Proficiency” later in this chapter. 


DIFFICULTY CLASS 

The Difficulty Class for a saving throw is deter- 
mined by the effect that causes it or by the DM. For 
example, if a spell forces you to make a save, the DC 
is determined by the caster's spellcasting ability and 
Proficiency Bonus. Monster abilities that call for 


saves specify the DC. 


ATTACK ROLLS 

An attack roll determines whether an attack hits 

a target. An attack roll hits if the roll equals or ex- 
ceeds the target's Armor Class. Attack rolls usually 
occur in battle, described in "Combat" later in this 
chapter, but the DM might also ask for an attack roll 
in other situations, such as an archery competition. 


ABILITY MODIFIER 
The Attack Roll Abilities table shows which ability 
modifier to use for different types of attack rolls. 


ATTACK ROLL ABILITIES 


Ability Attack Type 

Strength Melee attack with a weapon or an Un- 
armed Strike (see the rules glossary) 

Dexterity Ranged attack with a weapon 

Varies Spell attack (the ability used is deter- 


mined by the spellcaster's spellcasting 
feature, as explained in chapter 7) 


Some features let you use different ability modifiers 
from those listed. For example, the Finesse property 
(see chapter 6) lets you use Strength or Dexterity 
with a weapon that has that property. 


PROFICIENCY BONUS 

You add your Proficiency Bonus to your attack roll 
when you attack using a weapon you have profi- 
ciency with, as well as when you attack with a spell. 
See “Proficiency” later in this chapter for more in- 
formation about weapon proficiencies. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


ARMOR CLASS 

A creature's Armor Class represents how well the 
creature avoids being wounded in combat. The AC 
of a character is determined at character creation 
(see chapter 2), whereas the AC of a monster ap- 


pears in its stat block. 
Calculating AC. All creatures start with the same 


base AC calculation: 
Base AC = 10 + the creature's Dexterity modifier 


A creature's AC can then be modified by armor, 


magic items, spells, and more. 

Only One Base AC. Some spells and class features 
give characters a different way to calculate their 
AC. A character with multiple features that give dif- 
ferent ways to calculate AC must choose which one 
to use; only one base calculation can be in effect for 


a creature. 


ROLLING 20 oR 1 
If you roll a 20 on the d20 (called a "natural 20") 


for an attack roll, the attack hits regardless of any 
modifiers or the target's AC. This is called a Critical 
Hit (see "Combat" later in this chapter). 

If you roll a 1 on the d20 (a "natural 1") for an at- 
tack roll, the attack misses regardless of any modifi- 


ers or the target's AC. 


ADVANTAGE/DISADVANTAGE 


Sometimes a D20 Test is modified by Advantage 

or Disadvantage. Advantage reflects the positive 
circumstances surrounding a d20 roll, while Disad- 
vantage reflects negative circumstances. 

You usually acquire Advantage or Disadvantage 
through the use of special abilities and actions. The 
DM can also decide that circumstances grant Ad- 
vantage or impose Disadvantage. 


ROLL Two D20s 

When a roll has either Advantage or Disadvantage, 
roll a second d20 when you make the roll. Use the 
higher of the two rolls if you have Advantage, and 
use the lower roll if you have Disadvantage. For ex- 
ample, if you have Disadvantage and roll an 18 and a 
5, use the 3. If you instead have Advantage and roll 
those numbers, use the 18. 


THEY Don’t STACK 

If multiple situations affect a roll and they all grant 
Advantage on it, you still roll only two d20s. Simi- 
larly, if multiple situations impose Disadvantage on 
a roll, you roll only two d20s. 

If circumstances cause a roll to have both Advan- 
tage and Disadvantage, the roll has neither of them, 
and you roll one d20. This is true even if multiple 
circumstances impose Disadvantage and only one 
grants Advantage or vice versa. In such a situation, 
you have neither Advantage nor Disadvantage. 


IF vou HAVE ADVANTAGE, USE THE 18. 
IF vou HAVE DISADVANTAGE, USE THE 3. 


INTERACTIONS WITH REROLLS 

When you have Advantage or Disadvantage and 
something in the game lets you reroll or replace 
the d20, you can reroll or replace only one die, not 
both. You choose which one. 

For example, if you have Heroic Inspiration (see 
the sidebar) and roll a 3 and an 18 on an ability 
check that has Advantage or Disadvantage, you 
could expend your Heroic Inspiration to reroll one 
of those dice, not both of them. 


ll É———— ——————— E Is lia: 


HEROIC INSPIRATION 


Sometimes the DM or a rule gives you Heroic 
Inspiration. If you have Heroic Inspiration, you 
can expend it to reroll any die immediately after 
rolling it, and you must use the new roll. 

Only One at a Time. You can never have more 
than one instance of Heroic Inspiration. If some- 
thing gives you Heroic Inspiration and you al- 
ready have it, you can give it to a player character 
in your group who lacks it. 

Gaining Heroic Inspiration. Your DM can give 
you Heroic Inspiration for a variety of reasons. 
Typically, DMs award it when you do something 
particularly heroic, in character, or entertaining. 
It's a reward for making the game more fun for 
everyone playing. 

Other rules might allow your character to gain 
Heroic Inspiration independent of the DM's deci- 
sion. For example, Human characters start each 
day with Heroic Inspiration. 


ча ————= 


PROFICIENCY 


Characters and monsters are good at various things. 
Some are skilled with many weapons, while others 
can use only a few. Some are better at understand- 
ing people's motives, and others are better at un- 
locking the secrets of the multiverse. All creatures 
have a Proficiency Bonus, which reflects the impact 
that training has on the creature's capabilities. A 
character's Proficiency Bonus increases as the char- 
acter gains levels (described in chapter 2). A mon- 
ster's Proficiency Bonus is based on its Challenge 
Rating (see the rules glossary). The Proficiency Bo- 
nus table shows how the bonus is determined. 

This bonus is applied to a D20 Test when the crea- 
ture has proficiency in a skill, in a saving throw, or 
with an item that the creature uses to make the D20 
Test. The bonus is also used for spell attacks and for 
calculating the DC of saving throws for spells. 


PROFICIENCY BONUS 


Level or CR Bonus Level or CR Bonus 
Up to 4 +2 17-20 +6 
5-8 +3 21-24 +7 
9-12 +4 25-28 +8 
13-16 +5 29-30 +9 


THE BONUS DOESN’T STACK 


Your Proficiency Bonus can't be added to a die roll 
or another number more than once. For example, if 
a rule allows you to make a Charisma (Deception or 
Persuasion) check, you add your Proficiency Bonus 
if you're proficient in either skill, but you don't add 
it twice if you're proficient in both skills. 

Occasionally, a Proficiency Bonus might be multi- 
plied or divided (doubled or halved, for example) be- 
fore being added. For example, the Expertise feature 
(see the rules glossary) doubles the Proficiency Bo- 
nus for certain ability checks. Whenever the bonus 
is used, it can be multiplied only once and divided 
only once. 


SKILL PROFICIENCIES 


Most ability checks involve using a skill, which rep- 
resents a category of things creatures try to do with 
an ability check. The descriptions of the actions 

you take (see "Actions" later in this chapter) specify 
which skill applies if you make an ability check for 
that action, and many other rules note when a skill 


is relevant. The DM has the ultimate say on whether 


a skill is relevant in a situation. 

If a creature is proficient in a skill, the creature 
applies its Proficiency Bonus to ability checks in- 
volving that skill. Without proficiency in a skill, 
a creature can still make ability checks involving 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


I3 


SKILLS 


Example Uses 


Stay on your feet in a tricky situation, or perform an acrobatic stunt. 
Calm or train an animal, or get an animal to behave in a certain way. 
Recall lore about spells, magic items, and the planes of existence. 

Jump farther than normal, stay afloat in rough water, or break something. 
Tell a convincing lie, or wear a disguise convincingly. 

Recall lore about historical events, people, nations, and cultures. 


Skill Ability 
Acrobatics Dexterity 

Animal Handling Wisdom 

Arcana Intelligence 

Athletics Strength 

Deception Charisma 

History Intelligence 

Insight Wisdom Discern a person’s mood and intentions. 
Intimidation Charisma 


Investigation Intelligence 
Medicine Wisdom 
Nature Intelligence 
Perception Wisdom 
Performance Charisma 
Persuasion Charisma 
Religion Intelligence 
Sleight of Hand Dexterity 
Stealth Dexterity 
Survival Wisdom 


that skill but doesn’t add its Proficiency Bonus. For 
example, if a character tries to climb a cliff, the DM 
might ask for a Strength (Athletics) check. If the 
character has Athletics proficiency, the character 
adds their Proficiency Bonus to the Strength check. 
If the character lacks that proficiency, they make 
the check without adding their Proficiency Bonus. 


SKILL LIST 
The skills are shown on the Skills table, which notes 


example uses for each skill proficiency as well as the 
ability check the skill most often applies to. 


DETERMINING SKILLS 
A character's starting skill proficiencies are deter- 
mined at character creation, and a monster's skill 
proficiencies appear in its stat block. 
LLLL——————————————————— m. 
SkiLLS WITH DIFFERENT ABILITIES 
Each skill proficiency is associated with an abil- 
ity check. For example, the Intimidation skill is 
associated with Charisma. In some situations, 
the DM might allow you to apply your skill profi- 
ciency to a different ability check. For example, if 
a character tries to intimidate someone through a 
show of physical strength, the DM might ask for 
a Strength (Intimidation) check rather than a Cha- 
risma (Intimidation) check. That character would 
make a Strength check and add their Proficiency 
Bonus if they have Intimidation proficiency. 


TEETTERU———————————MÁMÓÉÉÉÉ—ÓÓMMM— 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


Same жу sarastaa 
"түтүнү 


Awe or threaten someone into doing what you want. 
Find obscure information in books, or deduce how something works. 


Diagnose an illness, or determine what killed the recently slain. 

Recall lore about terrain, plants, animals, and weather. 

Using a combination of senses, notice something that's easy to miss. 
Act, tell a story, perform music, or dance. 

Honestly and graciously convince someone of something. 

Recall lore about gods, religious rituals, and holy symbols. 

Pick a pocket, conceal a handheld object, or perform legerdemain. 
Escape notice by moving quietly and hiding behind things. 

Follow tracks, forage, find a trail, or avoid natural hazards. 


SAVING THROW PROFICIENCIES  - 


Proficiency in a saving throw lets a character add 
their Proficiency Bonus to saves that use a partic- 
ular ability. For example, proficiency in Wisdom 
saves lets you add your Proficiency Bonus to your 
Wisdom saves. Some monsters also have saving 
throw proficiencies, as noted in their stat blocks. 

Each class gives proficiency in at least two saving 
throws, representing that class's training in evading 
or resisting certain threats. Wizards, for example, 
are proficient in Intelligence and Wisdom saves; 
they train to resist mental assault. 


EQUIPMENT PROFICIENCIES 


A character gains proficiency with various weapons 
and tools from their class and background. There 
are two categories of equipment proficiency: 


Weapons. Anyone can wield a weapon, but profi- 
ciency makes you better at wielding it. If you have 
proficiency with a weapon, you add your Profi- 
ciency Bonus to attack rolls you make with it. 

Tools. If you have proficiency with a tool, you can 
add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability check 
you make that uses the tool. If you have Profi- 
ciency in the skill that's also used with that check, 
you have Advantage on the check too. This means 
you can benefit from both skill proficiency and 
tool proficiency on the same ability check. 


ACTIONS 

When you do something other than moving or 
communicating, you typically take an action. The 
Action table lists the game's main actions, which are 
defined in more detail in the rules glossary. 


ACTIONS 
Action Summary 
Attack Attack with a weapon or an Unarmed 
Strike. 
Dash For the rest of the turn, give yourself 


extra movement equal to your Speed. 

Disengage Your movement doesn't provoke Oppor- 
tunity Attacks for the rest of the turn. 

Dodge Until the start of your next turn, attack 

rolls against you have Disadvantage, and 

you make Dexterity saving throws with 

Advantage. You lose this benefit if you 

have the Incapacitated condition or if 

your Speed is 0. 

Help Help another creature's ability check or 
attack roll, or administer first aid. 

Hide Make a Dexterity (Stealth) check. 

Influence Make a Charisma (Deception, Intimi- 
dation, Performance, or Persuasion) or 
Wisdom (Animal Handling) check to 
alter a creature's attitude. 

Magic Cast a spell, use a magic item, or use a 
magical feature. 

Ready Prepare to take an action in response to 
a trigger you define. 


Search Make a Wisdom (Insight, Medicine, 
Perception, or Survival) check. 

Study Make an Intelligence (Arcana, History, 
Investigation, Nature, or Religion) check. 

Utilize Use a nonmagical object. 


Player characters and monsters can also do things 
not covered by these actions. Many class features 
and other abilities provide additional action options, 
and you can improvise other actions. When you de- 
scribe an action not detailed elsewhere in the rules, 
the Dungeon Master tells you whether that action 

is possible and what kind of D20 Test you need to 
make, if any. 


ONE THING AT A TIME 


The game uses actions to govern how much you can 
do at one time. You can take only one action at a 
time. This principle is most important in combat, as 
explained in "Combat" later in this chapter. 


Actions can come up in other situations, too: in a 
social interaction, you can try to Influence a crea- 
ture or use the Search action to read the creature's 
body language, but you can't do both at the same 
time. And when you're exploring a dungeon, you 
can't simultaneously use the Search action to look 
for traps and use the Help action to aid another 
character who's trying to open a stuck door (with 
the Utilize action). 


BONUS ACTIONS 


Various class features, spells, and other abilities let 
you take an additional action on your turn called a 
Bonus Action. The Cunning Action feature, for ex- 
ample, allows a Rogue to take a Bonus Action. You 
can take a Bonus Action only when a special ability, 
a spell, or another feature of the game states that 
you can do something as a Bonus Action. You other- 
wise don't have a Bonus Action to take. 

You can take only one Bonus Action on your turn, 
so you must choose which Bonus Action to use if 
you have more than one available. 

You choose when to take a Bonus Action during 
your turn unless the Bonus Action's timing is spec- 
ified. Anything that deprives you of your ability to 
take actions also prevents you from taking a Bonus 
Action. 


REACTIONS 


Certain special abilities, spells, and situations allow 
you to take a special action called a Reaction. A 
Reaction is an instant response to a trigger of some 
kind, which can occur on your turn or on someone 
else's. The Opportunity Attack, described later in 
this chapter, is the most common type of Reaction. 

When you take a Reaction, you can't take another 
one until the start of your next turn. If the reaction 
interrupts another creature's turn, that creature 
can continue its turn right after the Reaction. 

In terms of timing, a Reaction takes place immedi- 
ately after its trigger unless the Reaction's descrip- 
tion says otherwise. 


ÉL ———————————————————— 


WHat WouLD Your CHARACTER Do? 
Ask yourself as you play, "What would my char- 
acter do?" Playing a role involves some amount 
of getting into another person's head and under- 
standing what motivates them and how those 
motivations translate into action. In D&D, those 
actions unfold against the backdrop of a fantastic 
world full of situations we can only imagine. How 
does your character react to those situations? 
This advice comes with one important caveat: 
avoid character choices that ruin the fun of the 
other players and the DM. Choose actions that 
delight you and your friends. 


D ——————————————————————————— 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


I5 


SOCIAL INTERACTION 


During their adventures, player characters meet 
many different people and face some monsters that 
would rather talk than fight. In those situations, it's 
time for social interaction, which takes many forms. 
For example, you might try to convince a burglar 

to confess to wrongdoing or try to flatter a guard. 
The Dungeon Master assumes the roles of any non- 
player characters who are participating. 

An NPC's attitude toward your character is 
Friendly, Indifferent, or Hostile, as defined in the 
rules glossary. Friendly NPCs are predisposed to 
help, and Hostile ones are inclined to hinder. 

Social interactions progress in two ways: through 
roleplaying and ability checks. 


ROLEPLAYING 


Roleplaying is, literally, the act of playing out a role. 
In this case, it's you as a player determining how 
your character thinks, acts, and talks. Roleplaying is 
part of every aspect of the game, and it comes to the 
fore during social interactions. 

As you roleplay, consider whether you prefer an 
active approach or a descriptive approach, each of 
which is described in "Social Interaction Example." 

The DM uses an NPC's personality and your char- 
acter's actions and attitudes to determine how an 
NPC reacts. A cowardly bandit might buckle under 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


CHARACTERS LAY ON THE CHARM WHILE 
BARTERING FOR MAGIC ITEMS WITH A 


GREEN HAG 


threats of imprisonment. A stubborn merchant 
refuses to help if the characters badger her. A vain 
dragon laps up flattery. 

When interacting with an NPC, pay attention to 
the DM's portrayal of the NPC's personality. You 
might be able to learn an NPC's goals and then use 
that information to influence the NPC. 

If you offer NPCs something they want or play 
on their sympathies, fears, or goals, you can form 
friendships, ward off violence, or learn a key piece 
of information. On the other hand, if you insult a 
proud warrior or speak ill of a noble's allies, your 
efforts to convince or deceive will likely fail. 


ABILITY CHECKS 


Ability checks can be key in determining the out- 
come of a social interaction. Your roleplaying ef- 
forts can alter an NPC's attitude, but there might 
still be an element of chance if the DM wants dice to 
play a role in determining an NPC's response to you. 
In such situations, the DM will typically ask you to 
take the Influence action. 

Pay attention to your skill proficiencies when 
thinking of how you will interact with an NPC; use 
an approach that relies on your group's skill profi- 
ciencies. For example, if the group needs to trick a 
guard into letting them into a castle, the Rogue who 
is proficient in Deception should lead the discussion. 


SOCIAL INTERACTION EXAMPLE 


In this scene, players engage in a social interaction 
encounter. You and your group determine how 
similar scenes play out in your adventures. 


Four adventurers—Shreeve, Mirabella, Auro, and 
Gareth—have traveled to the Blood on the Vine tavern 
in the grim village of Barovia. 


Jared (as DM): This tavern might have been finely 
appointed once, but it has grown shoddy with the 
passage of years. A blazing fire in the hearth barely 
gives any warmth to the room. You see a man 
behind the counter, methodically cleaning glasses. 
Three older women huddle together at one table. 
And a handsome young man sits by himself at 
a corner table, sipping a glass of wine. He looks 
up as you enter, but the other people ignore you. 
“Welcome to Barovia,” he says. He holds a coin 
toward the bartender: “A pitcher for the visitors.” 
The glint of silver catches the server's attention. 

Maeve (as Mirabella): “Thank you, friend. May we 
know to whom we're indebted?” 

Jared: “1 am Ismark Kolyanovich, though around 
here, | am often called Ismark the Lesser.” 

Russell (as Shreeve): “That’s unfortunate.” 

Jared: “Indeed. | hope one day to live up to my fa- 
ther’s example and rid myself of that title. And so, 
my new friends, who are you?” 

Amy (as Auro): “I’m Auro.” 

Russell: “Shreeve.” 

Phillip (as Gareth): “My name is Gareth.” 

Maeve (as Mirabella): “I’m called Mirabella. You said 
your name was Kolyanovich. Are you related to 
Kolyan Indirovich, the burgomaster of this town?” 

Jared: He looks a little surprised. He says, “Kolyan 
Indirovich is my esteemed father, yes.” 

Maeve: “Then he’s the one who summoned us!” | 
show him the letter that drew us here. 

Phillip: | watch his reaction as he reads it. 

| Jared: He reaches for the letter but pulls back before 
touching it. "That seal—it's not my father’s.” 
° Gareth, make a Wisdom (Insight) check. 

Phillip: Gareth got 18. 

Jared: You notice that Ismark is trying to conceal his 
terror. He's afraid to even touch the letter's seal. 

Phillip: | ask him what's frightening him. 

Russell: "Yeah, whose seal is it?" 

Jared: "The Devil Strahd." 

Amy: "Sounds like a pleasant fellow." 

Jared: "No! He is the vampire lord of Castle Raven- 
loft and a plague to my sister. You must help her!" 


Active Roleplaying. Notice throughout the 
example how Russell and Amy actively role- 
play their characters' behavior. In this active 
approach, they speak with their characters' 


voices, like an actor taking on a role. The 
players might even echo their characters' 
body language. They still need to describe 
things that can't reasonably be acted out. 


Descriptive Roleplaying. Notice how Phillip 

describes his character's words and action. 

Drawing on his mental image of his char- 

acter, he says what his character does and 

how the character does it. If this approach is 

most comfortable for you, keep these things 

in mind: 

* Describe your character’s emotions and 
attitude. 

* Focus on your character's intent and how 
others might perceive it. 

e Provide as much embellishment as you 
feel comfortable with. 


Don't worry about getting things exactly 
right. Focus on what your character would 
do, and describe what you see in your mind. 


Ability Checks. Phillip's character, Gareth, 
makes a Wisdom (Insight) check to deter- 
mine whether he reads Ismark's unspoken 
cues. Wisdom is the ability that measures 
perceptiveness and intuition. Insight reflects 
a character's skill at reading other people's 
moods and intentions. The DM set the DC 


at 15, which Gareth beats. With a successful 
Wisdom (Insight) check, Gareth gleans in- 
formation that wasn't obvious, so it wasn't 
part of the DM's earlier narration. For more 
information, see "Ability Scores" and "Profi- 
ciency" earlier in this chapter and the Search 
action in the rules glossary. 


Amy: "So Strahd wrote this letter, pretending to be 
the burgomaster, imploring us to come to Barovia 
and rescue Ігеепа Kolyana from a deadly affliction 
... Which is him? Why would he do that?" 

Russell: "Why would he want us to come here?" 

Maeve: "Clearly, he doesn't think we're a threat." 

Amy: "Well, he hasn't met us yet!" 

Jared: "He's toying with you. He delights іп the de- 
struction of all things good, like my dear sister." 

Phillip: Gareth draws closer and compassionately 
asks Ismark whether his sister has been bitten by 
the vampire. 

Jared: Please make a Charisma (Persuasion) check to 
see how well he responds to your pastoral manner. 
You have Advantage because he's Friendly. 

Phillip: Oh, good thing. My first roll was a 7, but with 
Advantage ... ugh, not much better. Well, 10 plus 

Sis 15. 

Jared: Ismark leans toward you, Gareth, with a suspi- 
cious glance at the other people in the tavern, like 
he's worried they're eavesdropping. He whispers, 
“The Devil Strahd desires to make Ігеепа his latest 
plaything. Twice he has visited her in the night, 
using his devilry to secure an invitation into the 
house—for he can't enter where he isn't invited. 
Twice he has bitten her, yet she clings to life. But I 
fear she won't survive another visit!" 

- Russell: "All right, Ismark. You bought us drinks 
- and told us about the Devil Strahd and your sister. 


How can we help?" 


] » 


“+ 
é; ERN CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


Jared: "You are too kind! First, | need your help 
transporting Ігеепа to the town of Vallaki.” 

Maeve: "Where's Vallaki?" 

Jared: "It lies to the northwest, in the heart of the 
valley. As the raven flies, it is less than ten miles, 
but the road winds among the hills and woods, 
and the journey takes at least five hours at speed." 

Russell: "And why there?" 

Jared: "The town lies beyond the view of Castle 
Ravenloft, so | hope it's beyond Strahd's spies. 
And | have heard that Vallaki is well defended, with 
a wooden palisade and iron gates." 

Russell: "As if such defenses would stop a vampire." 
Jared: "Indeed. But if moving her there can keep him 
away from her for even a few days, we have time 

for the second part of our task." 

Russell: “A part where you help us?" 

Jared: "Yes, when I help you face the vampire!" 


Ө 


Influencing NPCs. Gareth takes the Influence 
action (see the rules glossary), which charac- 
ters can take to influence an NPC. It's easier 
to influence an NPC who's already disposed 


to help you, as Ismark is here. Ismark's 
Friendly attitude gives Phillip Advantage on 
the roll. In this case, Advantage made the 
difference between success and failure. 


EXPLORATION 

Exploration involves delving into places that are 
dangerous and full of mystery. The rules in this 
section detail some of the ways adventurers interact 
with the environment in such places. 
ADVENTURING EQUIPMENT 

As adventurers explore, their equipment can help 
them in many ways. For example, they can reach 
out-of-the-way places with a Ladder, perceive things 
they wouldn't otherwise notice with a Torch or 
another light source, bypass locked doors and con- 
tainers with Thieves' Tools, and create obstacles for 
pursuers with Caltrops. 

See chapter 6 for rules on many items that are 
useful on adventures. The items in that chapter's 
"Tools" and “Adventuring Gear” sections are es- 
pecially useful. The weapons in that chapter can 
also be used for more than battle; you could use a 
Quarterstaff, for example, to push a sinister-looking 
button that you're reluctant to touch. 


VISION AND LIGHT 


Some adventuring tasks—such as noticing danger, 

hitting an enemy, and targeting certain spells—are 
affected by sight, so effects that obscure vision can 
hinder you, as explained below. 


OBSCURED AREAS 

An area might be Lightly or Heavily Obscured. In 
a Lightly Obscured area—such as an area with Dim 
Light, patchy fog, or moderate foliage—you have 
Disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on sight. 

A Heavily Obscured area—such as an area with 
Darkness, heavy fog, or dense foliage—is opaque. 
You have the Blinded condition (see the rules glos- 
sary) when trying to see something there. 


LIGHT 
The presence or absence of light determines the cat- 
egory of illumination in an area, as defined below. 

Bright Light. Bright Light lets most creatures see 
normally. Even gloomy days provide Bright Light, 
as do torches, lanterns, fires, and other sources of 
illumination within a specific radius. 

Dim Light. Dim Light, also called shadows, creates 
a Lightly Obscured area. An area of Dim Light is 
usually a boundary between Bright Light and sur- 
rounding Darkness. The soft light of twilight and 
dawn also counts as Dim Light. A full moon might 
bathe the land in Dim Light. 

Darkness. Darkness creates a Heavily Obscured 
area. Characters face Darkness outdoors at night 
(even most moonlit nights), within the confines of 


an unlit dungeon, or in an area of magical Darkness. 


SPECIAL SENSES 

Some creatures have special senses that help them 
perceive things in certain situations. The rules glos- 
sary defines the following special senses: 


Blindsight Tremorsense 
Darkvision Truesight 
HIDING 


Adventurers and monsters often hide, whether to 
spy on one another, sneak past a guardian, or set 
an ambush. The Dungeon Master decides when cir- 
cumstances are appropriate for hiding. When you 
try to hide, you take the Hide action. 


INTERACTING WITH OBJECTS — 


Interacting with objects is often simple to resolve. 
The player tells the DM that their character is do- 
ing something, such as moving a lever or opening a 
door, and the DM describes what happens. Some- 
times, however, rules govern what you can do with 
an object, as detailed in the following sections. 


Powe a AUSSER Ка. Ч "wr wa mena i PE So ae eee 


WHAT Is AN OBJECT? | | 
For the purpose of the rules, an object is a discrete, 


inanimate item like a window, door, sword, book, 
table, chair, or stone. It isn't a building or a vehicle, 


which are composed of many objects. 


TIME-LIMITED OBJECT INTERACTIONS 
When time is short, such as in combat, interactions 
with objects are limited: one free interaction per 
turn. That interaction must occur during a crea- 
ture's movement or action. Any additional inter- 
actions require the Utilize action, as explained in 
"Combat" later in this chapter. 


FINDING HIDDEN OBJECTS 
When your character searches for hidden things, 
such as a secret door or a trap, the DM typically 
asks you to make a Wisdom (Perception) check, 
provided you describe the character searching in 
the hidden object's vicinity. On a success, you find 
the object, other important details, or both. 

If you describe your character searching nowhere 
near a hidden object, a Wisdom (Perception) check 
won't reveal the object, no matter the check's total. 


CARRYING OBJECTS 

You can usually carry your gear and treasure with- 
out worrying about the weight of those objects. 

If you try to haul an unusually heavy object or a 
massive number of lighter objects, the DM might re- 
quire you to abide by the rules for carrying capacity 


in the rules glossary. 


BREAKING OBJECTS 

As an action, you can automatically break or oth- 
erwise destroy a fragile, nonmagical object, such as 
a glass container or a piece of paper. If you try to 
damage something more resilient, the DM might use 
the rules on breaking objects in the rules glossary. 


HAZARDS 


Monsters are the main perils characters face, but 
other dangers await. The rules glossary defines the 
following hazards: 


Burning Falling Suffocation 
Dehydration Malnutrition 
TRAVEL 


During an adventure, the characters might travel 
long distances on trips that could take hours or 
days. The DM can summarize this travel without 
calculating exact distances or travel times, or the 
DM might have you use the travel pace rules below. 
If you need to know how fast you can move when 
every second matters, see the movement rules in 


"Combat" later in this chapter. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


—————————————————— № 
MARCHING ORDER 
The adventurers should establish a marching 
order while they travel, whether indoors or out- 
doors. A marching order makes it easier to de- 
termine which characters are affected by traps, 
which ones can spot hidden enemies, and which 
ones are the closest to those enemies if a fight 
breaks out. You can change your marching order 
outside combat and record the order any way you 
like: write it down, for example, or arrange minia- 
tures to show it. 


че —ӨЫӨЫыЫыш——_-—+-+-_— 


TRAVEL PACE 
While traveling outside combat, a group can move 


at a Fast, Normal, or Slow pace, as shown on the 
Travel Pace table. The table states how far the 
party can move in a period of time; if riding horses 
or other mounts, the group can move twice that 
distance for 1 hour, after which the mounts need 

a Short or Long Rest before they can move at that 
increased pace again (see chapter 6 for a selection 
of mounts for sale). The Dungeon Master’s Guide has 
rules that affect which pace you can choose in cer- 
tain types of terrain. 


TRAVEL PACE 
Distance Traveled Per ... 


Pace Minute Hour Day 

Fast 400 feet 4 miles 30 miles 
Normal 300 feet 3 miles 24 miles 
Slow 200 feet 2 miles 18 miles 


Each travel pace has a game effect, as defined below. 

Fast. Traveling at a Fast pace imposes Disadvan- 
tage on a traveler's Wisdom (Perception or Sur- 
vival) and Dexterity (Stealth) checks. 

Normal. Traveling at a Normal pace imposes Dis- 
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. 

Slow. Traveling at a Slow pace grants Advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception or Survival) checks. 


VEHICLES 
Travelers in wagons, carriages, or other land vehi- 
cles choose a pace as normal. Characters in a water- 
borne vessel are limited to the speed of the vessel, 
and they don't choose a travel pace. Depending on 
the vessel and the size of the crew, ships might be 
able to travel for up to 24 hours per day. Chapter 6 
includes vehicles for sale. 


EXPLORATION EXAMPLE 


This scene finds the player characters investigating 
a mysterious and potentially dangerous location. 
They're moving through the environment and inter- 
acting with things they find there. 


The characters are exploring Castle Ravenloft, and the 
DM describes the room the characters have entered. 


Jared (as DM): A blazing hearth fire fills this room 
with warm light. Firelight glints off a poker beside 
the fireplace, and the walls are lined with ancient 
books. A huge painting hangs above the mantel- 
piece in a gilded frame. The firelight illuminates 
the portrait—an exact likeness of Ireena Kolyana. 

Phillip (as Gareth): How old does the painting look? 

Maeve (as Mirabella): I’m going to check the books! 

Jared: OK, I'll get to those in a second. Russell and 
Amy, what are your characters doing? 

Russell (as Shreeve): | stand near the door, sword 
drawn, ready for danger. This place is creepy! 

Amy (as Auro): ! go near the fireplace. A warm fire 
sounds nice. But I'm also alert for danger. 

| Jared: Got it. OK, Phillip, please make an Intelligence 
(History) check as Gareth looks at the painting. 
T Phillip: | don't have proficiency in History, but here 
goes. | got—oh! А 20! For a total of... 20. 

Jared: Two things leap out at Gareth about the paint- 
ing. First, the woman's clothes look old-fashioned. 
Second, the paint is flaking in places, and the 
whole thing is covered by a thin layer of soot. 
You'd say this painting is a few centuries old. 

Phillip: So maybe an ancestor of Ireena's? Unless 
she's already a vampire and this "bitten by Strahd" 
thing is a ruse. 

Jared: Who knows? Now, Mirabella's looking at the 
books? 

Maeve: Yeah, | pull one off the shelf at random. 


M 


Everyone Is Accounted For. Exploration is 
open-ended; the players don't take turns 
moving around the dungeon the way they do 
in combat. But the DM frequently checks in 
to make sure it's clear where everyone is and 
what they're doing. 


Teamwork Matters. The player characters 

are working toward a common goal. They 
move together through the dungeon and 
cooperate to overcome its challenges. When 
the characters enter the room, they explore 
different parts of the room. When Auro finds 
a secret door behind the fireplace later in the 
example, they come together again to exam- 
ine it, and Gareth figures out how to bypass 
the fire. It might seem like Russell's charac- 
ter wasn't doing much, but Shreeve was pro- 
tecting the group by guarding the door. 


Worth Rolling with or without Proficiency. 
You usually have a chance of success on 

an ability check even if you don't have pro- 
ficiency in a relevant skill. In the example, 
Phillip gets a 20 without proficiency. The d20 
brings many surprises to the game—sur- 
prises that the DM then interprets. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


ee NR cada rain | 
— € 


I^ EE А EIUS. 


Jared: It's a book written in Common called On the 
Habitations of the Divine in the Celestial and Infer- 
nal Realms. 

Russell: Did you just make that up? 

Jared: I'll never tell. As you flip through the book, you 
notice it's very academic, almost impenetrable. 

Maeve: OK, | put that one back and pull out another. 

Jared: Are Shreeve and Auro doing anything else? 

| Amy: | grab the poker and poke at logs in the fire. 

| Jared: As soon as you lift the poker, you hear a grind- 
ө ing sound, and the back of the fireplace slides to 

| the side, revealing a room behind it! 

Amy: "Uh, folks? | found something!” Can | see 
anything in the room beyond? 

Jared: Past the flames and smoke, you see a glim- 
mering pile of coins heaped near a chest. 

| Amy: Anybody have a quick way to put out a fire? 
| Phillip: And you laughed at me for preparing Create 
| or Destroy Water! | clutch my Holy Symbol and 
Ө) cast the spell, drenching the fireplace. 
| Jared: What does the spell’s description say? 
Phillip: It causes 10 gallons of water to rain down in 
a 30-foot Cube, extinguishing flames there. 
Jared: Great! That puts out the fire. Without the light 
from the hearth, you're back to the magic glow 


| of Shreeve’s sword, which casts your shadows 


into the room beyond. But you can see, through 
clouds of lingering smoke, a closed chest on the 
floor, surrounded by piles of coins. There are two 
torch sconces on the far wall—one holding an 
unlit torch with an intricate metal base, the other 
empty. A skeleton in broken plate armor is lying 
against that wall, with one hand at its throat and 
the other holding the matching torch from the 
empty sconce. 

Amy: | check out the chest! 

Jared: And the rest of you? 

Phillip: Gareth enters and looks at the skeleton. 

Maeve: | keep watch on this side of the fireplace. 

Russell: I'm still back by the first door. 

Jared: Amy, the chest seems expertly made, with 
elegant fittings and clawed feet. 

Amy: | try to open it. Is it locked? 

Jared: It's not locked and opens easily—and it re- 

- leases a cloud. of sweet-smelling, gas. 

Amy: ‘Oh, no. - 

Jared: Oh, yes. 1 need Auro and Gareth & to make Con- 


Pa r 


bP gan j * 
Yo} Ў 2 


АВО е T 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


aviam 


w this 8 , lungs you fee 2 
and your bodies st fen. You both 


© 


Finding Hidden Objects. Adventure environ- 
ments are full of secrets: traps, concealed 
doors, loose floorboards, and hidden trea- 
sures. Characters often use Wisdom checks 


rules glossary—but sometimes they stum- 
ble on them accidentally, as Auro did here. 


Casting Spells. Many characters have the 
ability to cast spells, which have a huge vari- 
ety of effects. Some spells are mostly useful 
in combat, by dealing damage or imposing 
conditions. Other spells have utility in ex- 


to find things—see the Search action in the | 


ploration. If you're playing a spellcaster, look 
for a mix of combat-effective and utilitarian 
spells to help deal with varied challenges. 


Know Your Spells! Have your Player's Hand- 
book open to the description of a spell 
before you cast it. Don't expect the DM to 
know how your spell works, and be ready to 
answer any questions about it. 


Vision and Light. The DM determines what 
the adventurers can perceive, which means 
being aware of light sources—like the leap- 
ing flames in the fireplace and Shreeve's 
glowing sword—as well as obscuring factors 
like smoke and fog. See "Vision and Light" 
earlier in this chapter for more information. 


Saving Throws. A saving throw is used to see 
whether a creature avoids or resists some- 
thing. When the chest releases toxic gas, 
Phillip's and Amy's characters make Con- 
stitution saving throws. Constitution is one 
of the six abilities that measure creatures' 
capabilities, and it has to do with health and 
stamina. When they fail their saves, the gas 
causes them to have the Paralyzed condi- 
tion. See "Conditions" later in this chapter 
for more information. 


————— —ÓQÓ———PM a abo dr a o CN 


COMBAT 


Adventurers encounter many dangerous monsters 
and nefarious villains. In those moments, combat 
often breaks out. 


THE ORDER OF COMBAT 


A typical combat encounter is a clash between two 


sides: a flurry of weapon swings, feints, parries, 
footwork, and spellcasting. The game organizes 
combat into a cycle of rounds and turns. A round 
represents about 6 seconds in the game world. 
During a round, each participant in a battle takes a 
turn. The order of turns is determined at the begin- 
ning of combat when everyone rolls Initiative. Once 
everyone has taken a turn, the fight continues to 
the next round if neither side is defeated. 


COMBAT STEP By STEP 
Combat unfolds in these steps: 


1: Establish Positions. The Dungeon Master deter- 
mines where all the characters and monsters are 
located. Given the adventurers' marching order 
or their stated positions in the room or other lo- 
cation, the DM figures out where the adversaries 
are—how far away and in what direction. 

2: Roll Initiative. Everyone involved in the combat 
encounter rolls Initiative, determining the order 
of combatants' turns. 

3: Take Turns. Each participant in the battle takes 
a turn in Initiative order. When everyone in- 
volved in the combat has had a turn, the round 
ends. Repeat this step until the fighting stops. 


INITIATIVE 

Initiative determines the order of turns during 
combat. When combat starts, every participant 
rolls Initiative; they make a Dexterity check that 
determines their place in the Initiative order. The 
DM rolls for monsters. For a group of identical crea- 
tures, the DM makes a single roll, so each member 
of the group has the same Initiative. 

Surprise. If a combatant is surprised by combat 
starting, that combatant has Disadvantage on their 
Initiative roll. For example, if an ambusher starts 
combat while hidden from a foe who is unaware 
that combat is starting, that foe is surprised. 

Initiative Order. A combatant's check total is 
called their Initiative count, or Initiative for short. 
The DM ranks the combatants, from highest to 
lowest Initiative. This is the order in which they act 
during each round. The Initiative order remains the 
same from round to round. 

Ties. If a tie occurs, the DM decides the order 
among tied monsters, and the players decide the 
order among tied characters. The DM decides the 
order if the tie is between a monster and a player 
character. 


YOUR TURN 

On your turn, you can move a distance up to your 
Speed and take one action. You decide whether to 
move first or take your action first. 

The main actions you can take are listed in "Ac- 
tions" earlier in this chapter. A character's features 
and a monster's stat block also provide action op- 
tions. "Movement and Position" later in this chapter 
gives the rules for movement. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


23 


04 


CREATURES OCCUPY SPACES OF VARYING 
sizes. THis DispLAcER Beast occupies 

A 10-BY-10-FOOT SPACE, WHILE THE 
ADVENTURERS OCCUPY 5-BY-5-FOOT SPACES. 


Communicating. You can communicate however 
you are able—through brief utterances and ges- 
tures—as you take your turn. Doing so uses neither 
your action nor your move. 

Extended communication, such as a detailed ex- 
planation of something or an attempt to persuade a 
foe, requires an action. The Influence action is the 
main way you try to influence a monster. 

Interacting with Things. You can interact with 
one object or feature of the environment for free, 
during either your move or action. For example, you 
could open a door during your move as you stride 
toward a foe. 

If you want to interact with a second object, you 
need to take the Utilize action. Some magic items 
and other special objects always require an action 
to use, as stated in their descriptions. 

The DM might require you to use an action for 
any of these activities when it needs special care or 
when it presents an unusual obstacle. For instance, 
the DM might require you to take the Utilize action 
to open a stuck door or turn a crank to lower a 
drawbridge. 

Doing Nothing on Your Turn. You can forgo mov- 
ing, taking an action, or doing anything at all on 
your turn. If you can't decide what to do, consider 
taking the defensive Dodge action or the Ready ac- 


tion to delay acting. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


ENDING COMBAT 
Combat ends when one side or the other is defeated, 


which can mean the creatures are killed or knocked 
out or have surrendered or fled. Combat can also 
end when both sides agree to end it. 


MOVEMENT AND POSITION _ 
On your turn, you can move a distance equal to 
your Speed or less. Or you can decide not to move. 

Your movement can include climbing, crawling, 
jumping, and swimming (each explained in the rules 
glossary). These different modes of movement can 
be combined with your regular movement, or they 
can constitute your entire move. 

However you're moving with your Speed, you 
deduct the distance of each part of your move from 
it until it is used up or until you are done moving, 
whichever comes first. 

A character's Speed is determined during char- 
acter creation. À monster's Speed is noted in the 
monster's stat block. See the rules glossary for more 
about Speed as well as about special speeds, such as 
a Climb Speed, Fly Speed, or Swim Speed. 


DIFFICULT TERRAIN 

Combatants are often slowed down by Difficult 
Terrain. Low furniture, rubble, undergrowth, steep 
stairs, snow, and shallow bogs are examples of Diffi- 
cult Terrain. 


M € MÀ ————— M —— ir, 
PLAYING ON A GRID 
If you play using a square grid and miniatures or 
other tokens, follow these rules. 

Squares. Each square represents 5 feet. 

Speed. Rather than moving foot by foot, move 
square by square on the grid, using your Speed 
in 5-foot segments. You can translate your Speed 
into squares by dividing it by 5. For example, a 
Speed of 30 feet translates into 6 squares. If you 
use a grid often, consider writing your Speed in 
squares on your character sheet. 

Entering a Square. To enter a square, you must 
have enough movement left to pay for entering. 

It costs 1 square of movement to enter an un- 
occupied square that's adjacent to your space 
(orthogonally or diagonally adjacent). A square of 
Difficult Terrain costs 2 squares to enter. Other 
effects might make a square cost even more. 

Corners. Diagonal movement can't cross the 
corner of a wall, a large tree, or another terrain 
feature that fills its space. 

Ranges. To determine the range on a grid 
between two things—whether creatures or ob- 
jects—count squares from a square adjacent to 
one of them and stop counting in the space of the 
other one. Count by the shortest route. 

Se a E аы 28 
Every foot of movement in Difficult Terrain costs 

1 extra foot, even if multiple things in a space count 

as Difficult Terrain. 


BREAKING UP YOUR MOVE 

You can break up your move, using some of its 
movement before and after any action, Bonus Ac- 
tion, or Reaction you take on the same turn. For ex- 
ample, if you have a Speed of 30 feet, you could go 
10 feet, take an action, and then go 20 feet. 


DROPPING PRONE 

On your turn, you can give yourself the Prone 
condition (see the rules glossary) without using an 
action or any of your Speed, but you can't do so if 
your Speed is О. 


CREATURE SIZE 
A creature belongs to a size category, which deter- 
mines the width of the square space the creature 
occupies on a map, as shown on the Creature Size 
and Space table. That table lists the sizes from 
smallest (Tiny) to largest (Gargantuan). A creature's 
space is the area that it effectively controls in com- 
bat and the area it needs to fight effectively. 

A character's size is determined by species, and 
a monster's size is specified in the monster's stat 
block. 


CREATURE SIZE AND SPACE 


Size Space (Feet) Space (Squares) 
Tiny 2V2 by 21⁄2 feet 4 per square 

Small 5 by 5 feet 1 square 

Medium 5 by 5 feet 1 square 

Large 10 by 10 feet 4 squares (2 by 2) 
Huge 15 by 15 feet 9 squares (3 by 3) 
Gargantuan 20 by 20 feet 16 squares (4 by 4) 


MOVING AROUND OTHER CREATURES 

During your move, you can pass through the space 
of an ally, a creature that has the Incapacitated con- 
dition (see the rules glossary), a Tiny creature, ora 
creature that is two sizes larger or smaller than you. 

Another creature’s space is Difficult Terrain for 
you unless that creature is Tiny or your ally. 

You can't willingly end a move in a space occupied 
by another creature. If you somehow end a turn in 
a space with another creature, you have the Prone 
condition (see the rules glossary) unless you are 
Tiny or are of a larger size than the other creature. 


MAKING AN ATTACK 


When you take the Attack action, you make an 
attack. Some other actions, Bonus Actions, and Re- 
actions also let you make an attack. Whether you 
strike with a Melee weapon, fire a Ranged weapon, 
or make an attack roll as part of a spell, an attack 
has the following structure: 


1: Choose a Target. Pick a target within your at- 
tack's range: a creature, an object, or a location. 

2: Determine Modifiers. The DM determines 
whether the target has Cover (see the next sec- 
tion) and whether you have Advantage or Dis- 
advantage against the target. In addition, spells, 
special abilities, and other effects can apply pen- 
alties or bonuses to your attack roll. 

3: Resolve the Attack. Make the attack roll, as 
detailed earlier in this chapter. On a hit, you roll 
damage unless the particular attack has rules 
that specify otherwise. Some attacks cause spe- 
cial effects in addition to or instead of damage. 


provide cover, making a target more difficult to 
harm. As detailed in the Cover table, there are three 
degrees of cover, each of which gives a different 
benefit to a target. 

A target can benefit from cover only when an at- 
tack or other effect originates on the opposite side 
of the cover. If a target is behind multiple sources of 


26 IN 


D -—————————— E OE 


UNSEEN ATTACKERS AND TARGETS 
When you make an attack roll against a target you 
can't see, you have Disadvantage on the roll. This 
is true whether you're guessing the target's loca- 
tion or targeting a creature you can hear but not 
see. If the target isn't in the location you targeted, 
you miss. 

When a creature can't see you, you have Advan- 
tage on attack rolls against it. 

If you are hidden when you make an attack roll, 
you give away your location when the attack hits 


or misses. 
<a 
cover, only the most protective degree of cover ap- 
plies; the degrees aren't added together. For exam- 
ple, if a target is behind a creature that gives Half 
Cover and a tree trunk that gives Three-Quarters 
Cover, the target has Three-Quarters Cover. 


COVER 

Degree Benefit to Target Offered Ву... 

Half +2 bonus toAC Another creature or an 
and Dexterity object that covers at 
saving throws least half of the target 

Three- +5bonustoAC An object that covers 

Quarters and Dexterity at least three-quarters 
saving throws of the target 

Total Can't be targeted An object that covers 
directly the whole target 


RANGED ATTACKS 


When you make a ranged attack, you fire a bow, 
hurl an axe, or otherwise send projectiles to strike a 
foe at a distance. Many spells also involve making a 


ranged attack. 


RANGE 

You can make ranged attacks only against targets 
within a specified range. If a ranged attack, such as 
one made with a spell, has a single range, you can’t 
attack a target beyond this range. 

Some ranged attacks, such as those made with a 
Longbow, have two ranges. The smaller number is 
the normal range, and the larger number is the long 
range. Your attack roll has Disadvantage when your 
target is beyond normal range, and you can't attack 


a target beyond long range. 


RANGED ATTACKS IN CLOSE COMBAT 
Aiming a ranged attack is more difficult when a foe 
is next to you. When you make a ranged attack roll 
with a weapon, a spell, or some other means, you 
have Disadvantage on the roll if you are within 5 
feet of an enemy who can see you and doesn't have 
the Incapacitated condition (see the rules glossary). 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


— — 


MELEE ATTACKS — | 
A melee attack allows you to attack a target within 
your reach. A melee attack typically uses a hand- 
held weapon or an Unarmed Strike. Many monsters 
make melee attacks with claws, teeth, or other body 
parts. A few spells also involve melee attacks. 


REACH 
A creature has a 5-foot reach and can thus attack 


targets within 5 feet when making a melee attack. 
Certain creatures have melee attacks with a reach 
greater than 5 feet, as noted in their descriptions. 


OPPORTUNITY ATTACKS 
Combatants watch for enemies to drop their guard. 
If you move heedlessly past your foes, you put your- 
self in danger by provoking an Opportunity Attack. 

Avoiding Opportunity Attacks. You can avoid pro- 
voking an Opportunity Attack by taking the Disen- 
gage action. You also don't provoke an Opportunity 
Attack when you Teleport or when you are moved 
without using your movement, action, Bonus Ac- 
tion, or Reaction. For example, you don't provoke an 
Opportunity Attack if an explosion hurls you out of 
a foe's reach or if you fall past an enemy. 

Making an Opportunity Attack. You can make an 
Opportunity Attack when a creature that you can 
see leaves your reach. To make the attack, take a 
Reaction to make one melee attack with a weapon 
or an Unarmed Strike against that creature. The 
attack occurs right before it leaves your reach. 


MOUNTED COMBAT 


A willing creature that is at least one size larger 
than a rider and that has an appropriate anatomy 
can serve as a mount, using the following rules. 


MOUNTING AND DISMOUNTING 

During your move, you can mount a creature that 
is within 5 feet of you or dismount. Doing so costs 
an amount of movement equal to half your Speed 
(round down). For example, if your Speed is 30 feet, 
you spend 15 feet of movement to mount a horse. 


CONTROLLING A MOUNT 

You can control a mount only if it has been trained 
to accept a rider. Domesticated horses, mules, and 
similar creatures have such training. 

The Initiative of a controlled mount changes to 
match yours when you mount it. It moves on your 
turn as you direct it, and it has only three action op- 
tions during that turn: Dash, Disengage, and Dodge. 
A controlled mount can move and act even on the 
turn that you mount it. 

In contrast, an independent mount—one that lets 
you ride but ignores your control—retains its place 
in the Initiative order and moves and acts as it likes. 


ASTRIOE A GIANT 


SEAHORSE, A PALADIN 


AOVENTURES 
UNDERWATER. 


FALLING OFF 
If an effect is about to move your mount against its 
will while you're on it, you must succeed on a DC 10 
Dexterity saving throw or fall off, landing with the 
Prone condition (see the rules glossary) in an unoc- 
cupied space within 5 feet of the mount. 

While mounted, you must make the same save if 
you're knocked Prone or the mount is. 


UNDERWATER COMBAT 


A fight underwater follows these rules. 


IMPEDED WEAPONS 
When making a melee attack roll with a weapon 
underwater, a creature that lacks a Swim Speed has 


Disadvantage on the attack roll unless the weapon 
deals Piercing damage. 


A ranged attack roll with a weapon underwater 
automatically misses a target beyond the weapon's 
normal range, and the attack roll has Disadvantage 
against a target within normal range. 


FIRE RESISTANCE 


Anything underwater has Resistance to Fire dam- 
age (explained in “Damage and Healing”). 


DAMAGE AND HEALING 


Injury and death are frequent threats in D&D, as 
detailed in the following rules. 


HiT POINTS 


Hit Points represent durability and the will to live. 
Creatures with more Hit Points are more difficult 
to kill. Your Hit Point maximum is the number of 
Hit Points you have when uninjured. Your current 
Hit Points can be any number from that maximum 
down to O, which is the lowest Hit Points can go. 
Whenever you take damage, subtract it from your 
Hit Points. Hit Point loss has no effect on your capa- 
bilities until you reach O Hit Points. 
If you have half your Hit Points or fewer, you're 
Bloodied, which has no game effect on its own but 
which might trigger other game effects. 


DAMAGE ROLLS 


Each weapon, spell, and damaging monster ability 
specifies the damage it deals. You roll the damage 
dice, add any modifiers, and deal the damage to 
your target. If there’s a penalty to the damage, it’s 
possible to deal O damage but not negative damage. 

When attacking with a weapon, you add your 
ability modifier—the same modifier used for the at- 
tack roll—to the damage roll. A spell tells you which 
dice to roll for damage and whether to add any 
modifiers. Unless a rule says otherwise, you don't 
add your ability modifier to a fixed damage amount 
that doesn't use a roll, such as the damage of a 
Blowgun. See chapter 6 for weapons' damage dice 
and chapter 7 for spells’ damage dice. 


CRITICAL HITS —— е 
When you score a Critical Hit, you deal extra dam- 
age. Roll the attack's damage dice twice, add them 
together, and add any relevant modifiers as nor- 

mal. For example, if you score a Critical Hit with a 


RESTING 


Adventurers can't spend every hour adventuring. 
They need rest. Any creature can take hour-long 
Short Rests in the midst of a day and an 8-hour 
Long Rest to end it. Regaining Hit Points is one 
of the main benefits of a rest. The rules glossary 
provides the rules for Short and Long Rests. 


ө өї- ө ө - - її Р 2 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 2r 


28 4 


Dagger, roll 244 for the damage rather than 1d4, and 
add your relevant ability modifier. If the attack in- 
volves other damage dice, such as from the Rogue s 
Sneak Attack feature, you also roll those dice twice. 


SAVING THROWS AND DAMAGE 
Damage dealt via saving throws uses these rules. 


DAMAGE AGAINST MULTIPLE TARGETS 
When you create a damaging effect that forces two 
or more targets to make saving throws against it at 
the same time, roll the damage once for all the tar- 
gets. For example, when a wizard casts Fireball, the 
spell's damage is rolled once for all creatures caught 


in the blast. 


HALF DAMAGE 
Many saving throw effects deal half damage (round 


down) to a target when the target succeeds on the 
saving throw. The halved damage is equal to half 
the damage that would be dealt on a failed save. 


DAMAGE TYPES 


Each instance of damage has a type, like Fire or 
Slashing. Damage types are listed in the rules glos- 
sary and have no rules of their own, but other rules, 


such as Resistance, rely on damage types. 


RESISTANCE AND VULNERABILITY 


Some creatures and objects have Resistance or 
Vulnerability to certain damage types. If you have 
Resistance to a damage type, damage of that type 

is halved against you (round down). If you have 
Vulnerability to a damage type, damage of that type 
is doubled against you. For example, if you have 
Resistance to Cold damage, such damage is halved 
against you, and if you have Vulnerability to Fire 
damage, such damage is doubled against you. 


No STACKING 

Multiple instances of Resistance or Vulnerability 
that affect the same damage type count as only one 
instance. For example, if you have Resistance to Ne- 
crotic damage as well as Resistance to all damage, 
Necrotic damage is reduced by half against you. 


ORDER OF APPLICATION 
Modifiers to damage are applied in the following 
order: adjustments such as bonuses, penalties, or 
multipliers are applied first; Resistance is applied 
second; and Vulnerability is applied third. 

For example, a creature has Resistance to all 
damage and Vulnerability to Fire damage, and it’s 
within a magical aura that reduces all damage by 
5. If it takes 28 Fire damage, the damage is first 
reduced by 5 (to 23), then halved for the creature's 
Resistance (and rounded down to 11), then doubled 
for its Vulnerability (to 22). 


CHAPTER І | PLAYING THE GAME 


IMMUNITY - 
Some creatures and objects have Immunity to cer- 
tain damage types and conditions. Immunity to a 
damage type means you don't take damage of that 
type, and Immunity to a condition means you aren't 


affected by it. 


HEALING _ | 
Hit Points can be restored by magic, such as the 
Cure Wounds spell or a Potion of Healing, or by a 
Short or Long Rest (see the rules glossary). 

When you receive healing, add the restored Hit 
Points to your current Hit Points. Your Hit Points 
can't exceed your Hit Point maximum, so any Hit 
Points regained in excess of the maximum are lost. 
For example, if you receive 8 Hit Points of healing 
and have 14 Hit Points and a Hit Point maximum of 
20, you regain 6 Hit Points, not 8. 


DROPPING TO 0 HIT POINTS 


When a creature drops to O Hit Points, it either dies 
outright or falls unconscious, as explained below. 


INSTANT DEATH 
Here are the main ways a creature can die instantly. 

Monster Death. A monster dies the instant it drops 
to О Hit Points, although a Dungeon Master can ig- 
nore this rule for an individual monster and treat it 
like a character. 

Hit Point Maximum of 0. A creature dies if its Hit 
Point maximum reaches O. Certain effects drain life 
energy, reducing a creature's Hit Point maximum. 

Massive Damage. When damage reduces a charac- 
ter to О Hit Points and damage remains, the char- 
acter dies if the remainder equals or exceeds their 
Hit Point maximum. For example, if your character 
has a Hit Point maximum of 12, currently has 6 Hit 
Points, and takes 18 damage, the character drops to 
O Hit Points, but 12 damage remains. The character 
then dies, since 12 equals their Hit Point maximum. 


CHARACTER DEMISE 

If your character dies, others might find a magical 
way to revive your character, such as with the Raise 
Dead spell. Or talk with the DM about making a new 
character to join the group. The rules glossary has 
more information on being dead. 


FALLING UNCONSCIOUS 

If you reach 0 Hit Points and don't die instantly, you 
have the Unconscious condition (see the rules glos- 
sary) until you regain any Hit Points, and you now 
face making Death Saving Throws (see below). 


DEATH SAVING THROWS 

Whenever you start your turn with O Hit Points, 
you must make a Death Saving Throw to determine 
whether you creep closer to death or hang on to life. 


tel 

KNOCKING Ойт A CREATURE 

When you would reduce a creature to O Hit Points 

with a melee attack, you can instead reduce the 

creature to 1 Hit Point and give it the Uncon- 

scious condition. It then starts a Short Rest, at 

the end of which that condition ends on it. The 

condition ends early if the creature regains any 

Hit Points or if someone takes an action to ad- 

minister first aid to it, making a successful DC 10 

Wisdom (Medicine) check. 
SS  ——————-ЮЫПЇН— — — -—-  - ч ошттПттт 
Unlike other saving throws, this one isn't tied to an 
ability score. You're in the hands of fate now. 

Three Successes/Failures. Roll 1d20. If the roll is 10 
or higher, you succeed. Otherwise, you fail. A suc- 
cess or failure has no effect by itself. On your third 
success, you become Stable (see "Stabilizing a Char- 
acter" below). On your third failure, you die. 

The successes and failures don't need to be con- 
secutive; keep track of both until you collect three 
of a kind. The number of both is reset to zero when 
you regain any Hit Points or become Stable. 

Rolling a 1 or 20. When you roll a 1 on the d20 for 
a Death Saving Throw, you suffer two failures. If 
you roll a 20 on the d20, you regain 1 Hit Point. 

Damage at О Hit Points. If you take any damage 
while you have O Hit Points, you suffer a Death Sav- 
ing Throw failure. If the damage is from a Critical 
Hit, you suffer two failures instead. If the damage 
equals or exceeds your Hit Point maximum, you die. 


STABILIZING A CHARACTER 

You can take the Help action to try to stabilize a 
creature with O Hit Points, which requires a suc- 
cessful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check. 

A Stable creature doesn't make Death Saving 
Throws even though it has O Hit Points, but it still 
has the Unconscious condition. If the creature takes 
damage, it stops being Stable and starts making 
Death Saving Throws again. A Stable creature that 
isn't healed regains 1 Hit Point after 1d4 hours. 


TEMPORARY HIT POINTS _ 


Some spells and other effects confer Temporary Hit 
Points, which are a buffer against losing actual Hit 
Points, as explained below. 


LosE TEMPORARY HIT POINTS FIRST 

If you have Temporary Hit Points and take damage, 
those points are lost first, and any leftover damage 
carries over to your Hit Points. For example, if you 
have 5 Temporary Hit Points and take 7 damage, 
you lose those points and then lose 2 Hit Points. 


DURATION 


Temporary Hit Points last until they're depleted or 
you finish a Long Rest (see the rules glossary). 


THEY DON’T STACK 

Temporary Hit Points can't be added together. If 
you have Temporary Hit Points and receive more 
of them, you decide whether to keep the ones you 
have or to gain the new ones. For example, if a spell 
grants you 12 Temporary Hit Points when you al- 
ready have 10, you can have 12 or 10, not 22. 


THEY'RE NoT HIT POINTS OR HEALING 
Temporary Hit Points can't be added to your Hit 
Points, healing can't restore them, and receiving 
Temporary Hit Points doesn't count as healing. 
Because Temporary Hit Points aren't Hit Points, a 
creature can be at full Hit Points and receive Tem- 
porary Hit Points. 

If you have O Hit Points, receiving Temporary Hit 
Points doesn't restore you to consciousness. Only 
true healing can save you. 


CONDITIONS 


Many effects impose a condition, a temporary state 
that alters the recipient's capabilities. The following 
conditions are defined in the rules glossary: 


Blinded Grappled Poisoned 
Charmed Incapacitated Prone 
Deafened Invisible Restrained 
Exhaustion Paralyzed Stunned 
Frightened Petrified Unconscious 


The definition of a condition specifies what happens 
to its recipient while affected by it, and some condi- 
tions apply other conditions. 


DURATION = 


А condition lasts either for a duration specified by 
the effect that imposed the condition or until the 
condition is countered (the Prone condition is coun- 
tered by standing up, for example). 


No STACKING 


If multiple effects impose the same condition on 
you, each instance of the condition has its own du- 
ration, but the condition's effects don't get worse. 
Either you have a condition or you don't. The Ex- 
haustion condition is an exception; its effects get 
worse if you have the condition and receive it again. 


COMBAT AND 
DAMAGE EXAMPLE 


In this scene, threats force a group of adventur- 
ers into battle. This example demonstrates the 
turn-based flow of combat that gives each player 
a chance to detail what they do during the high- 
stakes moments of a fight. 


L ee ee ee ee Pee i. 


Below Castle Ravenloft, the characters enter combat! 


Jared (as DM): Yellow lichen covers the ceiling in this 
passage, which has alcoves along both sides. 
Russell (as Shreeve): | peer into the nearest alcoves. 
| Jared: They each contain human skeletal remains. 
| The silence is broken suddenly by the rattle of 
ө bones as the skeletons lurch to their feet all 
| around you and prepare to attack! 
Russell: Ack! How many skeletons? 
© Jared: Ten in all, and they're hostile. Roll Initiative! 
Russell: Ten skeletons? Yikes! | got a 16. 
Maeve (as Mirabella): | got 8. 
Phillip (as Gareth): An incredible 2 for Gareth. 


Amy (as Auro): | got a 19! 
| Jared: The Rogue is quick to react—but not as quick 
@ as the skeletons! They got a 20. The first four 
| attack the person in the lead: Shreeve. 
Russell: Oh, boy. 
| Jared: Their attack roll totals are 8, 16, 18, and 20. 
Russell: The 8 and 16 miss my AC, but the others hit. 
Ф jared: Two of them stick you with their broken 
blades, dealing a total of 9 Piercing damage. 
Russell: Is that the best you can do? 
Phillip: Never say that to the DM. 
Jared: Heh. Now two of them attack Auro. The first 
roll is a natural 1: a miss. The second roll is 16. 
Amy: That hits. 
Jared: You take 4 Piercing damage, and one of them 
attacks Mirabella with a roll of 14. 
(D) Maeve: Hits. No, wait! | cast Shield, so that misses. 

Jared: The skeleton’s blade bounces off your shield 
of magical force. Then two of them attack Gareth. 
One misses with a 5, but the other one lands a 
solid blow with a 21, dealing 7 piercing damage. 

Phillip: That got my attention! 

Jared: That’s nine attacks. There’s one more skeleton 
at the end of the hall. It moves up and waits for an 
opening. Now it’s Auro’s turn. 

Amy: | attack one close to me. Does a 24 hit? 

Jared: A solid hit! 

Amy: And it’s next to one of my allies, right? 

Jared: Yes. 

(B Amy: So with my Sneak Attack, that's 22 damage! 
Jared: Your blade slides into an empty eye socket, 
and the skeleton clatters to the ground, now inani- 
mate and harmless. 
і Amy: Then | use Cunning Action to Disengage as a 
® Bonus Action and move 20 feet out of the melee. 
Jared: Very good. Shreeve? 
| Russell: | drop my sword and pull out my warham- 
M mer. Time to break some bones! My first attack is 


a2] to hit for 7 Bludgeoning damage. 


CHAPTER І | PLAYING THE GAME 


f A, 
жа 


Starting Combat. While describing the skel- 
etons animating, the DM gets ready to start 
combat by mentally figuring out where every- 
one is, referring to the map of the area and 
the party's established marching order. 


Rolling Initiative. The next step in combat is 
for everyone involved to roll Initiative. 


Taking Turns. Now each participant in the 
battle takes a turn in Initiative order. The 
skeletons go first because they got the high- 
est Initiative: 20. 


S 
Attack Rolls. When a creature attacks, 
whether swinging a sword or firing an arrow 
from a bow, its player makes an attack roll. 
If the total is equal to or higher than the tar- 
get's Armor Class (AC), the attack hits. 


Spells and Reactions. Mirabella casts the 
Shield spell. It's a special property of this 
spell that it can be cast even when it's not 
the caster's turn, using her Reaction (see 
"Actions" earlier in this chapter). 


Special Abilities. Auro's Sneak Attack lets 
him deal extra damage to the skeletons, and 
his Cunning Action lets him Disengage as a 
Bonus Action. These are examples of class 
features (described in chapter 3) that let 
characters bend the rules. 


Vulnerability. An attack that deals Bludgeon- 
ing damage is deadly to skeletons. Shreeve 
knows this from past experience, which is 


why she drops her sword and switches to a 
Bludgeoning weapon. She rolls only 7 dam- 
age, but the DM knows the skeleton actually 
takes 14 damage. 


Jared: It tries to block your swing, but the force of 
your blow destroys the skeleton! 
Russell: | swing at the next skeleton with 11 to hit. 
Jared: The skeleton dodges out of the way. 
Russell: Rats. That's my turn. 
Jared: Mirabella? 
© Maeve: How many can | get in a 15-foot Cube? 
Jared: Three if you don't want to get Shreeve too. 
Maeve: That's probably best. | cast Thunderwave at 
those three, using a level 2 spell slot. So there's 
a loud boom, and a wave of thunderous force 
Ф sweeps over the skeletons. They need to make ОС 
15 Constitution saves. 
Jared: They all fail! 


Maeve: Because | used a level 2 slot, that's 15 Thun- 


der damage, and they're pushed 10 feet away. 

Jared: They're pushed back and shattered. 

Maeve: Excellent! Four down, six to go. 

Jared: And it's Gareth's turn at last! 

Phillip: How many of them are within 30 feet of me? 

Jared: All six. 

Phillip: | hold up my Holy Symbol and ask Pelor the 
Holy Sun to sear these skeletons. They need to 
make DC 15 Wisdom saves. 

Jared (rolling): Oh, those are not good numbers. 
None of them even got close. 

Phillip: They each take 18 Radiant damage and— 

Jared: Never mind the "and." Pelor does indeed 
smite these skeletons! They're silhouetted for a 
moment in a burst of brilliant light, then they van- 
ish, leaving only their broken swords behind. 


Areas of Effect. Spells and many other ef- 
fects in the game fill a specific area that is 
defined by the rules, like the 15-foot Cube of 
the Thunderwave spell. See the rules glos- 
sary for more on areas of effect. 


Saving Throws. The skeletons make Consti- 
tution saving throws to resist the Thunder- 
wave spell. When they fail those saves, they 
take damage and are pushed, as defined in 
that spell's description. 


Damage and Hit Points. The skeletons have 
13 Hit Points each, so the spells and attacks 
in this example deal enough damage to de- 
stroy them. If a spell or an attack dealt less 
than 13 damage, the DM would keep track of 
the damage each skeleton has taken until it 
is reduced to 0 Hit Points and is destroyed. 


Saving Throws. Gareth's Sear Undead is a 
class feature (see chapter 3). As with Mira- 
bella's Thunderwave spell, Sear Undead 
forces the skeletons to make a saving throw. 


CHAPTER 1 | PLAYING THE GAME 


Аа 


б 


d 


Y WORLO-TRAvEL 
7 RS 
à nO DIANA, AND PRE 
V NS 
> "m 


m 3 T \ 
+s 


E 
<> 
Ху 

À 
= 
nA 

d : 


CHAPTER 2 


CR EATING A CHARACTER 


Е ^ d OU CAN MAKE A CHARACTER FOR 

"Í DUNGEONS & DRAGONS using the build- 

JA ing blocks in this book. Your character is a 
combination of game statistics, roleplaying hooks, 
and your imagination. You choose a class (such as 
Fighter or Wizard), a background (such as Sailor or 
Acolyte), and a species (such as Human or Elf). You 
also invent the personality and appearance of your 
character. Once completed, your character serves as 
your avatar in the D&D multiverse. 


GET READY 


Before you dive into character creation, there are a 
few things to do to get ready, as explained below. 


TALK WITH YOUR DM 


Start by talking with your Dungeon Master about 


the type of D&D game they plan to run. If the DM 
draws inspiration from Greek myth, for example, 
you might choose a different direction for your 
character than if the DM is planning for swash- 
buckling on the high seas. Think about the kind of 
adventurer you want to play in this game. If you 
don’t know where to begin, look at the character 
illustrations in this book for inspiration. 


CHOOSE A CHARACTER SHEET 


You'll record the main details of your character on 


a character sheet. Throughout this chapter, we use 
the term "character sheet" to mean whatever you 
use to track your character's details, whether it's a 
printed character sheet (like the one shown on the 
following pages), a digital character sheet like the 
one on D&D Beyond, or plain paper. Choose which- 
ever style of sheet works for you, and then embark 
on creating a character! 


ah, 


SESSION ZERO 


Some Dungeon Masters start a campaign with 
a “session zero,” an initial gathering focused on 
creating characters and setting expectations, 
including topics to avoid as well as those to 
embrace. A session zero provides a great oppor- 
tunity to talk to the other players and the DM 
and decide whether your characters know one 
another, how they met, and what sorts of quests 
the group might undertake together. 


gr ——> 


y 
~~ 


CREATE YOUR CHARACTER 


Here are the steps to make a character; each step is 
explored in detail in this chapter: 


1: Choose a Class. Every adventurer is a member 
of a class. A class broadly describes a character's 
vocation, special talents, and favored tactics. 

2: Determine Origin. A character’s origin includes 
two elements: background and species. How did 
the character spend the years leading up to a life 
of adventure? Who are the character’s ancestors? 
You can also choose your character's languages. 

3: Determine Ability Scores. Much of what your 
character does in the game depends on the char- 
acter’s six abilities. 

4: Choose an Alignment. Alignment is a shorthand 
for your character's moral compass. 

5: Fill in Details. Using the choices you've made, fill 
in the remaining details on your character sheet. 


On the character sheet on the following pages, 
many spaces are labeled with a number that corre- 
sponds with one of those steps. 


STEP 1: CHOOSE A CLASS 


Choose a class, and write it on your character sheet. 
The Class Overview table summarizes the classes. 
See chapter 3 for the classes’ details. 


CLASS OVERVIEW 


Class Likes ... Primary Ability Complexity 
Barbarian Battle Strength Average 
Bard Performing Charisma High 
Cleric Gods Wisdom Average 
Druid Nature Wisdom High 
Fighter Weapons Strength Low 
or Dexterity 
Monk Unarmed Dexterity High 
combat and Wisdom 
Paladin Defense Strength Average 
and Charisma 
Ranger Survival Dexterity Average 
and Wisdom 
Rogue X Stealth Dexterity Low 
Sorcerer Power Charisma High 
Warlock Occult lore Charisma High 


Wizard  Spellbooks Intelligence Average 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


33 


HIT POINTS HIT DICE 


SUCCESSES 
ooo 


FAILURES 


А 
рсе 


CLASS 


SUBCLASS — — 


О WEAPONS & DAMAGE CANTRIPS 


Atk Bonus / DC Damage & Type Notes 


_ History 


Investigation 


__ Nature 


о Saving Throw . Religion 


5 
О ™ Athletics 


© CLASS FEATURES | 
| 
. Animal Handling 
Insight (2) 
Acrobatics 1 
o . .. Medicine j 
Sleight of Hand i 
Perception 
__ Stealth | 
Survival 
1 
i 
SCORE i 
MODIFIER | 
в | | | 
Р N | 
HEROIC Deception (2) JR — I rw | 


INSPIRATION | Intimidation ta у — " — 
| Performance ө SPECIES TRAITS | Ore FEATS 
—— óc DNE 0 
k _ Persuasion | 
2 | | 
EQUIPMENT TRAINING & PROFICIENCIES | | | 
i 
AM ININC Q Light Q Medium Heavy <> Shields і | 
WEAPONS | | 
LT RR 

TOOLS | | 
| | | | 
\ 4 
o = RR RSEN - e t n ra eater M © 


"D pans — 
P" 
"4 


C 
Р 


SPELLCASTING ABILITY 


SPELLCASTING 
MODIFIER 


Ө РЕ! stots 
Total Expended Total Expended Total Expended 
Lever ФФФФ | Levey __ OOD | every? OOo 
LeveL 2 ooo Levers QOO | Lever8 > 
Lever3 ooo uveu6 ФФ Leverg o 


SPELL SAVE DC 


SPELL ATTACK 
BONUS 


рашаан 


———— Pr 


Miramas imen ninri tm VEA Lt rep ыл. 


Ө CANTRIPS & PREPARED SPELLS 


Casting Concentration, Ritual 
Level Name Time Range & Required Material Notes 


oc OR Фм 
Фс Фк Фм 
Фс Фк Фм | 
Фс ФЕ Фм 


oc OR Фм uM Е | | | 
_ | | Alignment | 


ra асаан 
| | 
| | 
| 
| 
| | | 
| | 
mernes 


oc OR Фм 


[2 Equipment 1 
l Фс Фк фм 


oc Фа Фм mM 
Sc SR OM — — | Ө | 

| E - s. Dj Ө wancuaces | 
| | Фс OR Om | | | 
| Фс ФЕ Фм Д Sá BE | 
"n 1 —— 

i 

4 


Oc Фк Фм | 

Фс Фк фм oOo | 

[| oc Фк Фм | 
| Фс Or Фм | 
Oc Oe Om | 

oc Фк фм 
oc 98 Фм 
Фс OR Фм 


анас алела асаана тии 


Фс OR фм 
Фс OR Фм i N 


1 
| 
| 


1 
| 
Фс Фк Om | j| Magic кет Attunement 
1 
[ 
i 
i 
| 


| 
| 
i Фс OR Фм 
| 
{ 


o 
o 
o 


Фс OR Фм st 


|| 
Фс os Фм : | СР SP EP su f { 
i | A i A —— ЧИНИН 

1 


i 

i 

| Фс OR Фм | | 
| oc Фк Фм | vef cpi geni Sage eiu 
| oc o R o M j Rh Ape erin e rosca reis ышышыл озата tt , 


ТМА © 2024 Wizards of the Coast ULC. lilustrations by Richard Whitters. 
€———————— С 67003898000001 EN 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


35 


36 


rats rta: ant i a 


ист 
hil 


anM 


A BALANCED PARTY 

The classic D&D party comprises a Cleric, 
Fighter, Rogue, and Wizard. Those four classes 
have the longest history in the game, but more 
importantly, they bring a balanced mix of capa- 
bilities to adventures. You're welcome to use that 
party setup or modify it using these guidelines: 
Cleric. Replace with Bard or Druid 

Fighter. Replace with Barbarian, Monk, Paladin, 


or Ranger 
Rogue. Replace with Bard or Ranger 
Wizard. Replace with Bard, Sorcerer, or Warlock 


—— — À———  ———— € 


WRITE YOUR LEVEL 
Write your character's level on your character 
sheet. Typically, a character starts at level 1 and 
advances in level by adventuring and gaining Expe- 
rience Points (XP). 

Write Your XP. Also record your Experience 
Points. A level 1 character has O XP. 

Starting at a Higher Level. Your DM might start 
you at a higher level. If you start at level 3 or higher, 
write your chosen subclass on your character sheet. 
See the “Starting at Higher Levels” section later in 
the chapter for more information. 


NOTE ARMOR TRAINING 

Your class might give you training with certain 
categories of armor. Note your armor training on 
your character sheet. Armor training with a kind of 
armor means you can wear that armor effectively, 
gaining defensive bonuses from it. The categories of 
armor are described in chapter 6. 


Horp THAT THOUGHT 

You'll fill in more details about your class later. 
Choosing your class is the most important decision 
you make in creating a character, and it informs 
many of the decisions you make in later steps. You'll 
return to your class's description in chapter 3 sev- 
eral more times before you're done. 


STEP 2: DETERMINE ORIGIN 


Determining your character's origin involves choos- 
ing a background, a species, and two languages. 

A character's background represents the place 
and occupation that were most formative for the 
character. The combination of background, species, 
and languages provides fertile soil for your imagina- 
tion as you ponder your character's earliest days. 


CHOOSE A BACKGROUND 
Choose your character's background, and write it 
on your character sheet. You can choose any of the 
backgrounds detailed in chapter 4, and your DM 
might offer additional backgrounds as options. 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


The background you choose influences step 3, 
when you determine your character's ability scores. 
If you're having trouble choosing, the Ability Scores 
and Backgrounds table shows which backgrounds 
benefit which ability scores. Look for your class's 


primary ability there. 


ABILITY SCORES AND BACKGROUNDS 
Backgrounds 


Ability 

Strength Artisan, Entertainer, Farmer, Guard, 
Noble, Sailor, Soldier 

Dexterity Artisan, Charlatan, Criminal, 


Entertainer, Guide, Sailor, Scribe, 
Soldier, Wayfarer 

Charlatan, Criminal, Farmer, Guide, 
Hermit, Merchant, Sage, Soldier 
Acolyte, Artisan, Criminal, Guard, 
Merchant, Noble, Sage, Scribe 
Acolyte, Farmer, Guard, Guide, 
Hermit, Sage, Sailor, Scribe, Wayfarer 
Acolyte, Charlatan, Entertainer, 
Hermit, Merchant, Noble, Wayfarer 


Constitution 
Intelligence 
Wisdom 


Charisma 


Record Your Feat. A background gives you a feat, 
which grants your character particular capabilities. 
Feats are detailed in chapter 5. Write the feat on 


your character sheet. 

Note Proficiencies. Your background gives profi- 
ciency in two skills and with one tool. Record this 
information on your character sheet. 

Your class also gives proficiencies. Check your 
class description in chapter 3 and note the proficien- 
cies on your character sheet. 

On the sample character sheet, you can indicate 
proficiency in skills and saving throws by marking 
the circle next to them. 

The features table in your class description shows 
your Proficiency Bonus (described in chapter 1), 
which is *2 for a level 1 character. Note this number 
on your character sheet. You'll fill in other numbers 
connected to these proficiencies in step 5. 


CHOOSE STARTING EQUIPMENT 
Your background and class both provide starting 
equipment. Any coins that you gain at this step can 
be immediately spent on equipment from chapter 6. 
In addition, you can have one trinket at no cost (see 
the Trinkets table at the end of this chapter). 

Record your chosen equipment on your character 
sheet. Equipment is described in chapter 6, but for 
now you can just write it all down and look up the 
specifics in that chapter later. There's also space on 
the sample character sheet to note any coins you 
have left after purchasing your equipment, as well 
as treasure you acquire on your adventures. 


Choose a species for your character. The following 
species options are detailed in chapter 4: Aasimar, 
Dragonborn, Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, Goliath, Halfling, 
Human, Orc, and Tiefling. Once you've chosen a 
species, write it on your character sheet. Then re- 
cord your species' traits. 

Your character's size and Speed are determined by 
the character's species; record these in the appropri- 
ate places on your character sheet as well (you may 
write just the first letter of your size). 


IMAGINE YOUR PAST AND PRESENT 

Let your character's background and species inspire 
how you imagine their past. That past fed into the 
character's present. With that in mind, consider an- 
swers to the following questions as your character: 


- Who raised you? 

- Who was your dearest childhood friend? 

+ Did you grow up with a pet? 

- Have you fallen in love? If so, with whom? 

- Did you join an organization, such as a guild or 
religion? If so, are you still a member of it? 

- What elements of your past inspire you to go on 
adventures now? 


CHOOSE LANGUAGES 

Your character knows at least three languages: 
Common plus two languages you roll or choose 
from the Standard Languages table. Knowledge of a 
language means your character can communicate in 
it, read it, and write it. Your class and other features 
might also give you languages. 

The Standard Languages table lists languages 
that are widespread on D&D worlds. Every player 
character knows Common, which originated in the 
planar metropolis of Sigil, the hub of the multiverse. 
The other standard languages originated with the 
first members of the most prominent species in the 
worlds of D&D and have since spread widely. 


STANDARD LANGUAGES 


1d12 Language Origin 
— Common Sigil 
1 Common Sign Language Sigil 
Draconic Dragons 
3-4 Dwarvish Dwarves 
5-6 Elvish Elves 
Giant Giants 
8 | Gnomish Gnomes 
9 Goblin Goblinoids 
10-11 Halfling Halflings 
12 Orc Orcs 


CONSIDER HOW YOUR 
CHOICES COMBINE TO 
SET YOUR CHARACTER 
ON THE PATH TO 
ADVENTURE. 


The Rare Languages table lists languages that are 
either secret or derived from other planes of exis- 
tence and thus less widespread in the worlds of the 
Material Plane. Some features let a character learn 
a rare language. 


RARE LANGUAGES 


Language Origin 
Abyssal Demons of the Abyss 
Celestial Celestials 


Deep Speech Aberrations 


Druidic Druidic circles 

Infernal Devils of the Nine Hells 
Primordial* Elementals 

Sylvan The Feywild 

Thieves' Cant Various criminal guilds 
Undercommon The Underdark 


*Primordial includes the Aquan, Auran, Ignan, and Terran dialects. 
Creatures that know one of these dialects can communicate with 
those that know a different one. 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


37 


STANDARD ARRAY BY CLASS 


: LITY SCORES | | 
Dna. Эшен АЫ Class Str. Dex. Con. Int. Wis. Ch». 


To determine your character's ability scores, you | 
first generate a set of six numbers using the instruc- Barbarian 15 13 14 10 12 8 
tions below and then assign them to your six abili- Bard 8 
ties. Chapter 1 explains what each ability means. clee 14 8 
GENERATE YOUR SCORES Druid 8 12 14 13 15 10 


Determine your ability scores by using one of the Fightér 15 14 13 8 10 12 
following three methods. Your DM might prefer you Monk 12 15 13 10 » $ 
articular one. 
pe Array. Use the following six scores for Paladin 15 10 13 8 12 14 
your abilities: 15, 14, 15, 12, 10, 8. Ranger 12 15 13 8 14 10 
Random Generation. Roll four d6s and record the Rogue 12 15 13 14 10 8 
total of the highest three dice. Do this five more Sorcer? 10 ü iå А 45 i 
times, so you have six numbers. 
Point Cost. You have 27 points to spend on your Warlock 8 14 13 12 10 15 
ability scores. The cost of each score is shown on Wizard 8 12 13 15 14 10 


the Ability Score Point Costs table. For example, a 


score of 14 costs 7 of your 27 points. ADJUST ABILITY SCORES 


After assigning your ability scores, adjust them ac- 


ABILITY SCORE Point Costs cording to your background. Your background lists 
three abilities; increase one of those scores by 2 and 


Score Cost Score Cost 
8 0 12 4 a different one by 1, or increase all three by 1. None 
of these increases can raise a score above 20. 
íi 1 Ы i Some players like to increase their class's primary 
10 2 14 7 ability, while others prefer to increase a low score. 
^ : ы à DETERMINE ABILITY MODIFIERS 


ASSIGN ABILITY SCORES Finally, determine your ability modifiers using the 
Ability Scores and Modifiers table. Write the modi- 


Once you've generated six scores, assign them to В h of 
Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wis- er next to each of your scores. 


: s EINE Solace 
dom, and Charisma, keeping in mind your class’s ABILITY Scores AND MODIFIERS 


primary ability. Fill in the ability modifiers as well. 
If you're using the Standard Array option, consult Score Modifier Score Modifier 
the Standard Array by Class table for suggestions 3 -4 12-13 +1 
on where to assign scores for your character's class. 4-5 -3 14-15 +2 
The table puts the highest scores in a class's main 
abilities. If you used a different method to gener- E7 “2 Toe +3 
8-9 -1 18-19 +4 


ate the scores, you may still use this table to guide 
where you place your highest and lowest scores. 10-11 +0 20 +5 
——————— O 
BACKGROUNDS AND SPECIES DESCRIBE APPEARANCE AND PERSONALITY 
FROM OLDER BOOKS 
Backgrounds in older D&D books don’t include 
ability score adjustments. If you're using a back- 
ground from an older book, adjust your ability 
scores by increasing one score by 2 and a differ- 
ent one by 1, or increase three scores by 1. None 
of these increases can raise a score above 20. 
Similarly, species in older books include ability 
score increases. If you're using a species from an 
older book, ignore those increases and use only having a high or low score in an ability. 
the ones given by your background. Note your character's appearance and personality 
Also, if the background you choose doesn't pro- on your character sheet. 
vide a feat, you gain an Origin feat of your choice. 


Ability scores are an essential part of the rules, but 
they can be more than that. Once you've assigned 
your ability scores, give some thought to what those 
scores might say about your character's appearance 
and personality. A very strong character with low 
Charisma might look and behave differently from a 
charismatic character with low Strength. The fol- 
lowing tables of descriptive words give suggestions 
of how you might describe your character based on 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


STRENGTH 


STEP 4: CHOOSE AN ALIGNMENT 
144 High Str. 144 Low Str. 


Choose your character's alignment from the options 


1 Muscular 1 Weak below, and note it on your character sheet. 
2 Sinewy 2 Slight D&D assumes that player characters aren't of an 
à Protective 3 Self. Я evil alignment. Check with your DM before making 
conscious P 
an evil character. 
4 Direct 4 Indirect 
THE NINE ALIGNMENTS 
DEXTERITY A creature’s alignment broadly describes its ethical 
1d4 High Dex. 1d4 Low Dex. attitudes and ideals. Alignment is a combination of 
. р two factors: one identifies morality (good, evil, or 
1 Lithe 1 jittery neutral), and the other describes attitudes toward 
2 Dynamic 2 Clumsy order (lawful, chaotic, or neutral). 
3 Fidgety 3  Hesitant The summaries of the alignments below describe 
д Poised 4 Unsteady the typical behavior of a creature with that align- 
ment; individuals can vary from that behavior. 
CONSTITÜTION Lawful Good (LG). Lawful Good creatures en- 
deavor to do the right thing as expected by society. 
144 High Con. 144 Low Соп. Someone who fights injustice and protects the inno- 
1 Energetic 1 Frail cent without hesitation is probably Lawful Good. 
2 Hale 2 Squeamish Neutral Good (NG). Neutral Good creatures do the 
à best they can, working within rules but not feeling 
3 Hearty 3 Lethargic bound by them. A kindly person who helps others 
4 Stable 4 Fragile according to their needs is probably Neutral Good. 


Chaotic Good (CG). Chaotic Good creatures act as 
INTELLIGENCE their conscience directs with little regard for what 
ld4 High Int. 1d4 Low Int. others expect. A rebel who waylays a cruel baron’s 


1 Бе о ре tax collectors and uses the stolen money to help the 
poor is probably Chaotic Good. 

2 Logical 2 Illogical Lawful Neutral (LN). Lawful Neutral individuals 

3 Informative 3 Uninformed act in accordance with law, tradition, or personal 

; ; codes. Someone who follows a disciplined rule of 

„кн = life—and isn't swayed either by the demands of 

WISDOM those in need or by the temptations of evil—is prob- 
ably Lawful Neutral. 
144 High Wis. 1944 Low Wis. Neutral (N). Neutral is the alignment of those who 

1 Serene 1 Rash prefer to avoid moral questions and don't take sides, 

2 Considerate 2 Distracted doing what seems best at the time. Someone who's 

3. Attentive m bored by moral debate is probably Neutral. 

Chaotic Neutral (CN). Chaotic Neutral creatures 
4 Wary 4 Naive follow their whims, valuing their personal freedom 
above all else. A scoundrel who wanders the land 
CHARISMA living by their wits is probably Chaotic Neutral. 
1d4 High Cha. 1d4 Low Cha. Lawful Evil (LE). Lawful Evil creatures method- 
1 Charming 1^ Pedantic ically take what they want within the limits of a 
1 code of tradition, loyalty, or order. An aristocrat ex- 

2 Commanding 2 Humorless ploiting citizens while scheming for power is proba- 

3 Hilarious 3 Reserved bly Lawful Evil. 

4 Inspiring 4 Tactless Neutral Evil (NE). Neutral Evil is the alignment of 
those who are untroubled by the harm they cause as 
they pursue their desires. A criminal who robs and 

UNALIGNED CREATURES murders as they please is probably Neutral Evil. 
Most creatures that lack the capacity for rational Chaotic Evil (CE). Chaotic Evil creatures act with 
thought don't have alignments; they are un- arbitrary violence, spurred by their hatred or blood- 
: aligned. Sharks аге savage predators, for exam- lust. A villain pursuing schemes of vengeance and 
# ple, but they aren’t evil; they are unaligned. havoc is probably Chaotic Evil. 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER .. 39 


[ Neutral Good 4 STEP 5: FILL IN DETAILS 
wru! OO! = 
Ў , Now fill in the rest of your character sheet. 


RECORD CLASS FEATURES 
Look at your class's feature table in chapter 5, and 
write down the level 1 features. The class features 
are detailed in that same chapter. 

Some class features offer choices. Make sure to 
read all your features and make any offered choices. 


[2] 

B FILL IN NUMBERS 

F4 Note these numbers on your character sheet. 

5 Saving Throws. For the saving throws you have 
proficiency in, add your Proficiency Bonus to the 
appropriate ability modifier and note the total. 

Some players also like to note the modifier for sav- 
ing throws they're not proficient in, which is just 
the relevant ability modifier. 
Skills. For skills you have proficiency in, add your 
Proficiency Bonus to the ability modifier associated 
B- 5. Мер S* 27247 with that skill, and note the total. You might also 
— wish to note the modifier for skills you're not profi- 
єт cient in, which is just the relevant ability modifier. 
ALIGNMENTS MIGHT BE VISUALIZED AS A GRID LIKE THIS— Passive Perception. Sometimes your DM will de- 
ALONG WITH CREATURES THAT EMBODY THOSE ALIGNMENTS termine whether your character notices something 
without asking you to make a Wisdom (Perception) 
ALIGNMENT AND PERSONALITY check; the DM uses your Passive Perception instead. 
Alignment can shape a character's personality, Passive Perception is a score that reflects a general 
goals, and core beliefs. Looking at the two elements awareness of your surroundings when you're not 
of an alignment, you can use the lists below to in- actively looking for something. Use this formula to 
spire details of your character's personality. determine your Passive Perception score: 
PERSONALITY TRAITS BY ALIGNMENT Passive Perception = 10 + Wisdom (Perception) 
; ; р check modifier 
Alignment 144 Associated Trait | . 
Chaotic 7 TRENT Include all modifiers that apply to your Wisdom 
Я (Perception) checks. For example, if your character 
2 Impulsive has a Wisdom of 15 and proficiency in the Percep- 
3 Rebellious tion skill, you have a Passive Perception of 14 (10 + 2 
4  Selfabsorbed for your Wisdom modifier + 2 for proficiency). 
Good 1 Compassionate Hit Points. Your class and Constitution modifier 
2 Helpful determine your Hit Point maximum at level 1, as 
3 Honest shown on the Level 1 Hit Points by Class table. 
| ' 4 Kind LEvEL 1 Hit Points BY CLASS 
| d i den Class Hit Point Maximum 
| ТА Barbarian 12 + Con. modifier 
f 4 Greedy Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger 10 + Con. modifier 
| Lawful 1 Cooperative Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk, 8 + Con. modifier 
| 2 Loyal Rogue, or Warlock 
3  Judgmental Sorcerer or Wizard 6 + Con. modifier 
4 Methodical Th i 
e character sheet includes room to note your 
Neutral 1 Selfish current Hit Points when you take damage, as well as 
2 Disinterested any Temporary Hit Points you might gain. There's 
3 Laconic also space to track Death Saving Throws. 
4 Pragmatic 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


— ws 


Hit Point Dice. Your class's description tells you 
the die type of your character's Hit Point Dice (or 
Hit Dice for short); write this on your character 
sheet. At level 1, your character has 1 Hit Die. You 
can spend Hit Dice during a Short Rest to recover 
Hit Points. Your character sheet also includes space 
to note how many Hit Dice you've spent. 

Initiative. Write your Dexterity modifier in the 
space for Initiative on your character sheet. 

Armor Class. Without armor or a shield, your base 
Armor Class is 10 plus your Dexterity modifier. If 
your starting equipment includes armor or a Shield 
(or both), calculate your AC using the rules in chap- 
ter 6. A class feature might give you a different way 
to calculate your AC. 

Attacks. In the Weapons & Damage Cantrips 
section of the character sheet, write your starting 
weapons. The attack roll bonus for a weapon with 
which you have proficiency is one of the following 
unless a weapon’s property says otherwise: 


Melee attack bonus = Strength modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus 
Ranged attack bonus = Dexterity modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus 


Look up the damage and properties of your weap- 
ons in chapter 6. You add the same ability modifier 
you use for attacks with a weapon to your damage 
rolls with that weapon. 

Spellcasting. Note both the saving throw DC for 
your spells and the attack bonus for attacks you 
make with them, using these formulas: 


Spell save DC = 8 + spellcasting ability modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus 

Spell attack bonus = spellcasting ability modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus 


Your spellcasting ability modifier for a spell is de- 
termined by whatever feature gives you the ability 
to cast the spell. 

Spell Slots, Cantrips, and Prepared Spells. If your 
class gives you the Spellcasting or Pact Magic fea- 
ture, your class features table shows the number of 
spell slots you have available, how many cantrips 
you know, and how many spells you can prepare. 
Choose your cantrips and prepared spells, and note 
them—along with your number of spell slots—on 
your character sheet. 


NAME YOUR CHARACTER 

Choose a name for your character, and write it on 
your character sheet. The name can be whatever 
you like. Was it the name of an ancestor? Does it 
have religious or other significance? Is it a name 
you chose for yourself? 


CREATE FINAL DETAILS 

As you finish creating your character, consider 
whether you'd like to make up any other details 
about the character. Here are the sorts of things 
you might ask yourself as the character: 


* What's your gender? 

* What person or people do you care most about? 

- What's your deepest fear? 

+ On your adventures, will you seek knowledge, 
wealth, glory, enlightenment, justice, mercy, 
power, or something else? 


LEVEL ADVANCEMENT 


While going on adventures, your character gains 
experience, represented by Experience Points (XP). 
A character who reaches a specified Experience 
Point total advances in capability. This advance- 
ment is called gaining a level. 

The Character Advancement table lists the XP 
you need to advance to a level and the Proficiency 
Bonus for a character of that level. When your XP 
total equals or exceeds a number in the Experience 
Points column, you reach the corresponding level. 


CHARACTER ADVANCEMENT 


Level Experience Points ^ Proficiency Bonus 
1 0 +2 
2 300 +2 
3 900 +2 
4 2,700 +2 
5 6,500 +3 
6 14,000 +3 
7 23,000 +3 
8 34,000 +3 
9 48,000 +4 
10 64,000 +4 
11 85,000 +4 
12 100,000 +4 
13 120,000 +5 
14 140,000 +5 
15 165,000 +5 
16 195,000 +5 
17 225,000 +6 
18 265,000 +6 
19 305,000 +6 

20 355,000 +6 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING А CHARACTER 


41 


N 


BIOSY 


cow 


ADVENTURING EQUIPMENT IMPROVES 
AS A CHARACTER PROGRESSES THROUGH 
THE TIERS OF PLAY. 


GAINING A LEVEL 
When you gain a level, follow these steps: 


1: Choose a Class. Most characters advance in the 
same class. However, you might decide to gain a 
level in another class using the rules in the "Mul- 
ticlassing" section later in this chapter. 

2: Adjust Hit Points and Hit Point Dice. Each time 
you gain a level, you gain an additional Hit Die. 
Roll that die, add your Constitution modifier to 
the roll, and add the total (minimum of 1) to your 
Hit Point maximum. Instead of rolling, you can 
use the fixed value shown in the Fixed Hit Points 
by Class table. 


FIXED Hit PoiNTS BY CLASS 

Class Hit Points per Level 
Barbarian 7 + Con. modifier 
Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger 
Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk, 
Rogue, or Warlock 


6 Con. modifier 
5 + Con. modifier 


Sorcerer or Wizard 4 + Con. modifier 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


3: Record New Class Features. Look at your class 


features table in chapter 5, and note the features 
you gain at your new level in that class. Make any 
choices offered by a new feature. 


4: Adjust Proficiency Bonus. A character's Profi- 


ciency Bonus increases at certain levels, as shown 
in the Character Advancement table and your 
class features table in chapter 3. When your Pro- 
ficiency Bonus increases, increase all the num- 
bers on your character sheet that include your 
Proficiency Bonus. 


5: Adjust Ability Modifiers. If you choose a feat 


that increases one or more of your ability scores, 
your ability modifier also changes if the new 
score is an even number. When that happens, ad- 
just all the numbers on your character sheet that 
use that ability modifier. When your Constitution 
modifier increases by 1, your Hit Point maximum 
increases by 1 for each level you have attained. 
For example, if a character reaches level 8 and 
increases their Constitution score from 17 to 18, 
the Constitution modifier increases to +4. The 
character's Hit Point maximum then increases by 
8, in addition to the Hit Points gained for reach- 
ing level 8. 


ee eM IM 
BONUS FEATS AT LEVEL 20 
A DM can use feats as a form of advancement 
after characters reach level 20 to provide greater 
power to characters who have no more levels to 
gain. With this approach, each character gains 
one feat of their choice for every 30,000 XP the 
character earns above 355,000 XP. Epic Boon 
feats are especially appropriate for these bonus 
feats, but a player can choose any feat for which 
their level 20 character qualifies. 


_——.—.— 


TIERS OF PLAY 


With each new level, characters acquire new ca- 
pabilities that equip them to handle greater chal- 
lenges. As characters advance in level, the tone of 
the game also changes, and the stakes of the cam- 
paign get higher. It’s helpful to think of a character’s 
(and a campaign's) arc in terms of four tiers of play, 
describing the journey from a level 1 character just 
beginning an adventuring career to the epic heights 
of level 20. These tiers don't have any rules associ- 
ated with them; they point to the fact that the play 
experience evolves as characters gain levels. 


TIER 1 (LEVELS 1—4) 

In tier 1, characters are apprentice adventurers, 
though they are already set apart from the broader 
populace by virtue of their extraordinary abilities. 
They learn their starting class features and choose 
a subclass. The threats they face usually pose a dan- 
ger to local farmsteads or villages. 


TIER 2 (LEVELS 5—10) 

In tier 2, characters are full-fledged adventurers. 
Spellcasters gain iconic spells such as Fireball, Light- 
ning Bolt, and Raise Dead. Most weapon-focused 
classes gain the ability to make multiple attacks 

in a round. The characters now face dangers that 
threaten cities and kingdoms. 


STARTING EQUIPMENT AT HIGHER LEVELS 


Starting Level Equipment and Money 


2-4 Normal starting equipment 
5-10 500 GP plus 1d10 x 25 GP plus 
normal starting equipment 
11-16 5,000 gp plus 1d10 x 250 GP plus 


normal starting equipment 
17-20 
normal starting equipment 


20,000 GP plus 1d10 x 250 GP plus 


TIER 3 (LEVELS 11—16) 
In tier 3, characters have reached a level of power 
that makes them special among adventurers. At 
level 11, many spellcasters learn reality-altering 
spells. Other characters gain features that allow 
them to make more attacks or to do more impres- 
sive things with those attacks. These adventurers 
often confront threats to whole regions. 


TIER 4 (LEVELS 17—20) 

At tier 4, characters achieve the pinnacle of their 
class features, becoming heroic archetypes. The 
fate of the world or even the order of the multiverse 
might hang in the balance during their adventures. 


STARTING AT HIGHER LEVELS 


Your DM might start your group's characters at a 
level higher than 1. It is particularly recommended 
to start at level 5 if your group is composed of sea- 
soned D&D players. 


CREATING YOUR CHARACTER 


Creating a higher-level character uses the same 
character-creation steps outlined in this chapter 
and the rules for advancing beyond level 1 provided 
in the "Level Advancement" section. You begin with 
the minimum amount of XP required to reach your 
starting level. For example, if the DM starts you at 
level 10, you have 64,000 XP. 


STARTING EQUIPMENT 


The DM decides whether your character starts 
with more than the standard equipment for a level 
1 character, possibly even one or more magic items. 
The Starting Equipment at Higher Levels table is a 
guide for the DM. 

Also, check with your DM about what equipment 
is available for you to buy with your starting money. 
For example, the firearms described in chapter 6 are 
too expensive for level 1 characters, but they might 
be available for purchase if your DM allows them. 


Magic Items 
1 Common 
1 Common, 1 Uncommon 


2 Common, 3 Uncommon, 1 Rare 


2 Common, 4 Uncommon, 3 Rare, 1 Very Rare 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


43 


(i-a I Pause e 


MULTICLASSING 


Multiclassing allows you to gain levels in multiple 
classes. With this rule, you have the option of gain- 
ing a level in a new class whenever you advance in 
level instead of gaining a level in your current class. 
Doing so lets you mix the abilities of those classes 
to realize a character concept that might not be re- 


flected in a single class. 


PREREQUISITES 


To qualify for a new class, you must have a score 
of at least 13 in the primary ability of the new class 
and your current classes. For example, a Barbarian 
who decides to multiclass into the Druid class must 
have Strength and Wisdom scores of 15 or higher, 
since Strength is the primary ability for Barbarians 
and Wisdom is the primary ability for Druids. 


EXPERIENCE POINTS 


The Experience Point cost to gain a level is based on 
your total character level, not your level in a partic- 
ular class, as shown in the Character Advancement 
table in this chapter. For example, if you are a level 
6 Cleric / level 1 Fighter, you must gain enough XP 
to reach level 8 before you can take your second 
level as a Fighter or your seventh level as a Cleric. 


HiT POINTS AND HIT POINT DICE 


You gain the Hit Points from your new class as 
described for levels after 1. You gain the level 1 Hit 
Points for a class only when your total character 
level is 1. 

Add together the Hit Dice granted by all your 
classes to form your pool of Hit Dice. If these dice 
are the same die type, you can pool them together. 
For example, both the Fighter and the Paladin have 
a 410 Hit Die, so if you are a level 5 Fighter / level 5 
Paladin, you have ten 410 Hit Dice. If your classes 
give you Hit Dice of different types, track them sep- 
arately. If you are a level 5 Cleric / level 5 Paladin, 
for example, you have five d8 Hit Dice and five d10 


Hit Dice. 


PROFICIENCY BONUS 


Your Proficiency Bonus is based on your total char- 
acter level, not your level in a particular class, as 
shown in the Character Advancement table. For 
example, if you are a level 3 Fighter / level 2 Rogue, 
you have the Proficiency Bonus of a level 5 charac- 
ter, which is +3. 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


T 


PROFICIENCIES Е 
When you gain your first level іп a class other than 
your initial class, you gain only some of the new 
class's starting proficiencies, as detailed in each 
class's description in chapter 3. 


CLASS FEATURES mM 
When you gain a new level in a class, you get its fea- 
tures for that level. A few features have additional 
rules when you're multiclassing. Check the infor- 
mation about multiclassing included in each of your 
classes' descriptions. 

Special rules apply to Extra Attack, Spellcasting, 
and features (such as Unarmored Defense) that give 
you alternative ways to calculate your Armor Class. 


ARMOR CLASS 
If you have multiple ways to calculate your Armor 


Class, you can benefit from only one at a time. For 
example, a Monk/Sorcerer with a Monk's Unar- 
mored Defense feature and a Sorcerer's Draconic 
Resilience feature must choose only one of those 
features as a way to calculate Armor Class. 


EXTRA ATTACK 
If you gain the Extra Attack feature from more than 


one class, the features don't stack. You can't make 
more than two attacks with this feature unless you 
have a feature that says you can (such as the Fight- 
er's Two Extra Attacks feature). 

Similarly, the Warlock's Thirsting Blade invoca- 
tion, which grants you the Extra Attack feature 
with your pact weapon, doesn't give you additional 
attacks if you also have Extra Attack. 


SPELLCASTING 
Your capacity for spellcasting depends partly on 
your combined levels in all your spellcasting classes 
and partly on your individual levels in those classes. 
Once you have the Spellcasting feature from more 
than one class, use the rules below. If you multiclass 
but have the Spellcasting feature from only one 
class, follow the rules for that class. 

Spells Prepared. You determine what spells you 
can prepare for each class individually, as if you 
were a single-classed member of that class. If you 
are a level 4 Ranger / level 3 Sorcerer, for example, 
you can prepare five level 1 Ranger spells, and you 
can prepare six Sorcerer spells of level 1 or 2 (as 
well as four Sorcerer cantrips). 

Each spell you prepare is associated with one of 
your classes, and you use the spellcasting ability of 
that class when you cast the spell. 

Cantrips. If a cantrip of yours increases in power 
at higher levels, the increase is based on your total 
character level, not your level in a particular class, 
unless the spell says otherwise. 


Ceres 


MULTICLASS SPELLCASTER: 
SPELL SLOTS PER SPELL LEVEL 
Level 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
1 


O бо м СУ їл М ©» м 


A 
o 


| 
| 
| 
| 


E 
жей 


ЇЇ їйї = їй эй жй жый жый 
бо м СУ tU BR м 
| 
| 
| 


— 
о 


1 
2 
3 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 


w оз оо оошо шо ш UJ) оо (QJ UJ) ш ш ш UJ ш оо ы № 
WwW оо оо оо оо оу (QJ) UJ оо (9 (9 ш оо о» NJ 

w о ош ошо UJ ош ш (QJ) оо ою оо (9 NM — 

ш UJ) QJ) MN) Юю М М М Юю NON A 
NN: 

ю м - шм м мэ Ke — 

= м мч шч ш — 


N 
© 


Spell Slots. You determine your available spell 
slots by adding together the following: 


- All your levels in the Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, 
and Wizard classes 

- Half your levels (round up) in the Paladin and 
Ranger classes 

+ One third of your Fighter or Rogue levels (round 
down) if you have the Eldritch Knight or Arcane 
Trickster subclass. 


Then look up this total level in the Level column of 
the Multiclass Spellcaster table. You use the slots 
for that level to cast spells of an appropriate level 
from any class whose Spellcasting feature you have. 

This table might give you spell slots of a higher 
level than the spells you prepare. You can use those 
slots but only to cast your lower-level spells. If a 
lower-level spell that you cast, like Burning Hands, 
has an enhanced effect when cast at a higher level, 
you can use the enhanced effect as normal. 

For example, if you are a level 4 Ranger / level 3 
Sorcerer, you count as a level 5 character when de- 
termining your spell slots, counting all your levels 
as a Sorcerer and half your Ranger levels. As shown 
in the Multiclass Spellcaster table, you have four 
level 1 spell slots, three level 2 slots, and two level 3 
slots. However, you can't prepare any level 3 spells, 


A CHARACTER WiTH PALADIN ANO WARLOCK LEVELS MIGHT CALL 
ON BOTH A MIGHTY OATH AND AN OTHERWORLOLY PATRON. 


nor can you prepare any level 2 Ranger spells. You 
can use the spell slots of those levels to cast the 
spells you do prepare—and potentially enhance 
their effects. 

Pact Magic. If you have the Pact Magic feature 
from the Warlock class and the Spellcasting feature, 
you can use the spell slots you gain from Pact Magic 
to cast spells you have prepared from classes with 
the Spellcasting feature, and you can use the spell 
slots you gain from the Spellcasting feature to cast 
Warlock spells you have prepared. 


CHAPTER ? | CREATING A CHARACTER 45 


TRINKETS 14100 Trinket 
When you make your character, you can roll once 27 А shard of obsidian that always feels warmı 
on the Trinkets table to gain a Tiny trinket, a simple to the touch 

item lightly touched by mystery. The DM might also 28  Adragon's talon strung on a leather 


use this table. It can help stock a room in a dungeon necklace 


or fill a creature's pockets. 29 A pair of old socks 
TRINKETS 30 A blank book whose pages refuse to hold 
1d100 Trinket ink, chalk, graphite, or any other marking 

01 Amummified goblin hand 31 A silver badge that is a five-pointed star 

02  Acrystal that faintly glows in moonlight 32  Aknife that belonged to a relative 

03  Agold coin minted in an unknown land 33 А glass vial filled with nail clippings 

04 A diary written in a language you don't know 34  Arectangular metal device with two tiny 

05 A brass ring that never tarnishes metal cups on one end that throws sparks 

when wet 
Id ch i ade from glass : 
LL BB aiiis ici а Р 35  Awhite, sequined glove sized for a human 
07 A pair of knucklebone dice, each with a skull . : 
symbol on the side that would normally 36  Avest with one hundred tiny pockets 
37 A weightless stone 


show six pips 
08  Asmallidol depicting a nightmarish crea- 
ture that gives you unsettling dreams when 


38  Asketch of a goblin 
39  Anempty glass vial that smells of perfume 


you sleep near it 40 A gemstone that looks like a lump of coal 
09 A lock of someone's hair when examined by anyone but you 
10 Тһе deed for a parcel of land in a realm un- 41 A scrap of cloth from an old banner 
known to you 42 Arank insignia from a lost legionnaire 
11 Al-ounce block made from an unknown 43  Asilver bell without a clapper 
material 44 A mechanical canary inside a lamp 
12. A small clothidoliskeweredwithineedles 45 А miniature chest carved to look like it has 
13 A tooth from an unknown beast numerous feet on the bottom 
14 An enormous scale, perhaps from a dragon 46  Adead sprite inside a clear glass bottle 
15 A bright-green feather 47 A metal can that has no opening but sounds 


as if it is filled with liquid, sand, spiders, or 
broken glass (your choice) 
48  Aglass orb filled with water, in which swims 


16 An old divination card bearing your likeness 

17 A glass orb filled with moving smoke 

18 A 1-pound egg with a bright-red shell 

19 A pipe that blows bubbles а clockwork goldfish 

20 А glass jar containing a bit of flesh floating 49 RUP spoon with an M engraved on the 
andle 


in pickling fluid 
21  Agnome-crafted music box that plays 50 A whistle made from gold-colored wood 


a song you dimly remember from your 51 A dead scarab beetle the size of your hand 
childhood 52 Two toy soldiers, one missing a head 


22  Awooden statuette of a smug halfling 
23 A brass orb etched with strange runes 
| 24 A multicolored stone disk 
25 A silver icon of a raven 
26 A bag containing forty-seven teeth, one of 
which is rotten 


46 CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


Ò 
о 


vorne 


1d100 Trinket 


53 


54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 


66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 


75 
76 


77 


78 


79 


80 


81 


82 


A small box filled with different-sized 
buttons 


A candle that can't be lit 

A miniature cage with no door 
An old key 

An indecipherable treasure map 
A hilt from a broken sword 

A rabbit's foot 

A glass eye 

A cameo of a hideous person 

A silver skull the size of a coin 
An alabaster mask 

A cone of sticky black incense that stinks 


A nightcap that gives you pleasant dreams 
when you wear it 


A single caltrop made from bone 

A gold monocle frame without the lens 
A l-inch cube, each side a different color 
A crystal doorknob 

A packet filled with pink dust 


A fragment of a beautiful song, written as 
musical notes on two pieces of parchment 


A silver teardrop earring containing a real 
teardrop 


An eggshell painted with scenes of misery in 
disturbing detail 


A fan that, when unfolded, shows a sleepy 
cat 


A set of bone pipes 

A four-leaf clover pressed inside a book dis- 
cussing manners and etiquette 

A sheet of parchment upon which is drawn a 
mechanical contraption 

An ornate scabbard that fits no blade you 
have found 

An invitation to a party where a murder 
happened 

A bronze pentacle with an etching of a rat's 
head in its center 

A purple handkerchief embroidered with the 
name of an archmage 

Half a floor plan for a temple, a castle, or 
another structure 


14100 Trinket 


83 


84 
85 
86 
87 


88 


89 
90 
91 
92 
93 
94 


95 
96 


97 


98 


99 


00 


A bit of folded cloth that, when unfolded, 
turns into a stylish cap 


A receipt of deposit at a bank in a far-off city 
A diary with seven missing pages 


An empty silver snuffbox bearing the inscrip- 
tion "dreams" on its lid 


An iron holy symbol devoted to an unknown 
god 

A book about a legendary hero's rise and 
fall, with the last chapter missing 

A vial of dragon blood 

An ancient arrow of elven design 

A needle that never bends 

An ornate brooch of dwarven design 

An empty wine bottle bearing a pretty label 
that says, "The Wizard of Wines Winery, Red 
Dragon Crush, 331422-W" 


A mosaic tile with a multicolored, glazed 
surface 

A petrified mouse 

A black pirate flag adorned with a dragon's 
skull and crossbones 

A tiny mechanical crab or spider that moves 
about when it's not being observed 

A glass jar containing lard with a label that 
reads, "Griffon Grease" 

A wooden box with a ceramic bottom that 
holds a living worm with a head on each end 
of its body 


A metal urn containing the ashes of a hero 


no —À " 


CHAPTER 2 | CREATING A CHARACTER 


47 


CHAPTER 3 


CHARACTER CLASSES 


= 


Eu 


HARACTER CLASS PROVIDES A CHARACTER'S 
most exciting capabilities. This chapter offers 
—4JÜ twelve classes, each of which contains four 
subclasses—all summarized below. 
Barbarian. Storm with Rage, and wade into hand- 
to-hand combat. Then follow the Path of the ... 


Berserker to unleash raw violence. 

Wild Heart to manifest kinship with animals. 
World Tree to tap into cosmic vitality. 

Zealot to rage in union with a god. 


Bard. Perform spells that inspire and heal allies or 
beguile foes. Then join the College of ... 


Dance to harness agility in battle. 

Glamour to weave beguiling Feywild magic. 
Lore to collect knowledge and magical secrets. 
Valor to wield weapons with spells. 


Cleric. Invoke divine magic to heal, bolster, and 
smite. Then harness the ... 


Life Domain to be a master of healing. 

Light Domain to wield searing, warding light. 
Trickery Domain to bedevil foes with mischief. 
War Domain to inspire valor and chastise foes. 


Druid. Channel nature magic to heal, shape-shift, and 
control the elements. Then join the Circle of the ... 


Land to draw on the magic of the environment. 
Moon to adopt powerful animal forms. 

Sea to channel tides and storms. 

Stars to gain powers in а starry form. 


; Fighter. Master all weapons and armor. Then em- 
' body the... 


Battle Master to use special combat maneuvers. 
Champion to strive for peak combat prowess. 
Eldritch Knight to learn spells to aid in combat. 

Psi Warrior to augment attacks with psionic power. 


, Monk. Dart in and out of melee while striking fast 
and hard. Then become a Warrior of ... 


Mercy to heal or harm with a touch. 

Shadow to employ shadows for subterfuge. 
The Elements to wield elemental power. 

The Open Hand to master unarmed combat. 


Paladin. Smite foes and shield allies with divine 
and martial might. Then swear the Oath of ... 


Devotion to emulate the angels of justice. 
Glory to reach the heights of heroism. 

The Ancients to preserve life, joy, and nature. 
Vengeance to hunt down evildoers. 


Ranger. Weave together martial prowess, nature 
magic, and survival skills. Then embody the ... 


Beast Master to bond with a primal beast. 

Fey Wanderer to manifest fey mirth and fury. 
Gloom Stalker to hunt foes that lurk in darkness. 
Hunter to protect nature with martial versatility. 


Rogue. Launch deadly Sneak Attacks while avoid- 
ing harm through stealth. Then embody the ... 


Arcane Trickster to enhance stealth with spells. 
Assassin to deliver ambushes and poison. 
Soulknife to strike foes with psi blades. 

Thief to master infiltration and treasure hunting. 


Sorcerer. Wield magic innate to your being, shap- 
ing the power to your will. Then channel ... 


Aberrant Sorcery to use strange psionic magic. 
Clockwork Sorcery to harness cosmic forces of order. 
Draconic Sorcery to breathe the magic of dragons. 
Wild Magic to unleash chaos magic. 


. Warlock. Cast spells derived from occult knowl- 


edge. Then form a pact with the ... 


Archfey Patron to teleport and wield fey magic. 
Celestial Patron to heal with heavenly magic. 
Fiend Patron to call on sinister powers. 

Great Old One Patron to delve into forbidden lore. 


Wizard. Study arcane magic and master spells for 


" every purpose. Then embody the ... 


Abjurer to shield allies and banish foes. 
Diviner to learn the multiverse's secrets. 
Evoker to create explosive effects. 
Illusionist to weave spells of deception. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


y" 


eC 
^i 


wi 


RBARIAN. 


A Fierce Warr 


Вай 


ior of Primal Rage 


CoRE BARBARIAN TRAITS 
Primary Ability Strength 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


D12 per Barbarian level 
Strength and Constitution 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Animal Handling, 
Athletics, Intimidation, Na- 
ture, Perception, or Survival 
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons 
Light and Medium armor 
and Shields 

Choose A or B: (A) Greataxe, 
4 Handaxes, Explorer's Pack, 
and 15 GP; or (B) 75 GP 


Armor Training 


Starting Equipment 


FT ARBARIANS ARE MIGHTY WARRIORS WHO 

| "4^ are powered by primal forces of the multi- 
LLÄ verse that manifest as a Rage. More than a 
mere emotion—and not limited to anger—this Rage 
is an incarnation of a predator's ferocity, a storm's 
fury, and a sea's turmoil. 

Some Barbarians personify their Rage as a fierce 
spirit or revered forebear. Others see it as a con- 
nection to the pain and anguish of the world, as an 
impersonal tangle of wild magic, or as an expression 
of their own deepest self. For every Barbarian, their 
Rage is a power that fuels not just battle prowess, 
but also uncanny reflexes and heightened senses. 

Barbarians often serve as protectors and leaders 
in their communities. They charge headlong into 
danger so those under their protection don't have 
to. Their courage in the face of danger makes Bar- 
barians perfectly suited for adventure. 


BECOMING A BARBARIAN ... 


AS A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits in the Core Barbarian Traits 
table. 

+ Gain the Barbarian's level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Barbarian Features table. 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

- Gain the following traits from the Core Barbarian 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar- 
tial weapons, and training with Shields. 

* Gain the Barbarian’s level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Barbarian Features table. 


т. 
[ 
| 


BARBARIAN CLASS FEATURES 


As a Barbarian, you gain the following class fea- 
tures when you reach the specified Barbarian levels. 
These features are listed in the Barbarian Features 
table. 


LEVEL 1: RAGE 

You can imbue yourself with a primal power called 
Rage, a force that grants you extraordinary might 
and resilience. You can enter it as a Bonus Action if 
you aren't wearing Heavy armor. 

You can enter your Rage the number of times 
shown for your Barbarian level in the Rages column 
of the Barbarian Features table. You regain one ex- 
pended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you 
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest. 

While active, your Rage follows the rules below. 

Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to Blud- 
geoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage. 

Rage Damage. When you make an attack using 
Strength—with either a weapon or an Unarmed 
Strike—and deal damage to the target, you gain 
a bonus to the damage that increases as you gain 
levels as a Barbarian, as shown in the Rage Damage 
column of the Barbarian Features table. 

Strength Advantage. You have Advantage on 
Strength checks and Strength saving throws. 

No Concentration or Spells. You can’t maintain 
Concentration, and you can't cast spells. 

Duration. The Rage lasts until the end of your 
next turn, and it ends early if you don Heavy armor 
or have the Incapacitated condition. If your Rage 
is still active on your next turn, you can extend 
the Rage for another round by doing one of the 
following: 


+ Make an attack roll against an enemy. 
* Force an enemy to make a saving throw. 
· Take a Bonus Action to extend your Rage. 


Each time the Rage is extended, it lasts until the end 
of your next turn. You can maintain a Rage for up 
to 10 minutes. 


LEVEL 1: UNARMORED DEFENSE 

While you aren't wearing any armor, your base Ar- 
mor Class equals 10 plus your Dexterity and Consti- 
tution modifiers. You can use a Shield and still gain 
this benefit. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


51 


52 


BARBARIAN FEATURES 


Rage Weapon 


колеп Rages Damage Masiery 
Level Bonus Class Features : Е : 
1 +2 Rage, Unarmored Defense, Weapon Mastery 
2 +2 Danger Sense, Reckless Attack 2 +2 2 
3 +2 Barbarian Subclass, Primal Knowledge 3 +2 2 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 +2 3 
5 +3 Extra Attack, Fast Movement 3 +2 3 
6 +3 Subclass feature 4 +2 3 
y +3 Feral Instinct, Instinctive Pounce 4 +2 3 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 4 +2 3 
9 +4 Brutal Strike 4 +3 3 
10 +4 Subclass feature 4 +3 4 
n +4 Relentless Rage 4 +3 4 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 5 +3 4 
13 +5 Improved Brutal Strike 5 +3 4 
14 +5 Subclass feature 5 +3 4 
15 +5 Persistent Rage 5 +3 4 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 5 +4 4 
17 +6 Improved Brutal Strike 6 +4 4 
18 +6 Indomitable Might 6 +4 4 
19 +6 Epic Boon 6 +4 4 
20 +6 Primal Champion 6 +4 4 


LEVEL 1: WEAPON MASTERY 

Your training with weapons allows you to use the 
mastery properties of two kinds of Simple or Mar- 
tial Melee weapons of your choice, such as Great- 
axes and Handaxes. Whenever you finish a Long 
Rest, you can practice weapon drills and change one 
of those weapon choices. 

When you reach certain Barbarian levels, you 
gain the ability to use the mastery properties of 
more kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon 
Mastery column of the Barbarian Features table. 


LEVEL 2: DANGER SENSE 

You gain an uncanny sense of when things aren't as 
they should be, giving you an edge when you dodge 
perils. You have Advantage on Dexterity saving 
throws unless you have the Incapacitated condition. 


LEVEL 2: RECKLESS ATTACK 

You can throw aside all concern for defense to at- 
tack with increased ferocity. When you make your 
first attack roll on your turn, you can decide to at- 
tack recklessly. Doing so gives you Advantage on at- 
tack rolls using Strength until the start of your next 
turn, but attack rolls against you have Advantage 
during that time. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


IO ал бу ag HN NU hn 


LEVEL 3: BARBARIAN SUBCLASS 

You gain a Barbarian subclass of your choice. The 
Path of the Berserker, Path of the Wild Heart, Path 
of the World Tree, and Path of the Zealot subclasses 
are detailed after this class's description. A subclass 
is a specialization that grants you features at cer- 
tain Barbarian levels. For the rest of your career, 
you gain each of your subclass's features that are of 
your Barbarian level or lower. 


LEVEL 3: PRIMAL KNOWLEDGE 
You gain proficiency in another skill of your choice 
from the skill list available to Barbarians at level 1. 
In addition, while your Rage is active, you can 
channel primal power when you attempt certain 
tasks; whenever you make an ability check using 
one of the following skills, you can make it as a 
Strength check even if it normally uses a differ- 
ent ability: Acrobatics, Intimidation, Perception, 
Stealth, or Survival. When you use this ability, your 
Strength represents primal power coursing through 
you, honing your agility, bearing, and senses. 


WAYNE ENGLAND 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Barbarian 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK 
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn. 


LEVEL 5: FAST MOVEMENT 
Your speed increases by 10 feet while you aren't 
wearing Heavy armor. 


LEVEL 7: FERAL INSTINCT 
Your instincts are so honed that you have Advan- 
tage on Initiative rolls. 


LEVEL 7: INSTINCTIVE POUNCE 
As part of the Bonus Action you take to enter your 
Rage, you can move up to half your Speed. 


LEVEL 9: BRUTAL STRIKE 

If you use Reckless Attack, you can forgo any Ad- 
vantage on one Strength-based attack roll of your 
choice on your turn. The chosen attack roll mustn't 
have Disadvantage. If the chosen attack roll hits, the 
target takes an extra 1d10 damage of the same type 
dealt by the weapon or Unarmed Strike, and you 
can cause one Brutal Strike effect of your choice. 
You have the following effect options. 

Forceful Blow. The target is pushed 15 feet straight 
away from you. You can then move up to half your 
Speed straight toward the target without provoking 
Opportunity Attacks. 

Hamstring Blow. The target's Speed is reduced by 
15 feet until the start of your next turn. A target can 
be affected by only one Hamstring Blow at a time— 
the most recent one. 


LEVEL 11: RELENTLESS RAGE 
Your Rage can keep you fighting despite grievous 
wounds. If you drop to O Hit Points while your Rage 
is active and don't die outright, you can make a DC 
10 Constitution saving throw. If you succeed, your 
Hit Points instead change to a number equal to 
twice your Barbarian level. 

Each time you use this feature after the first, the 
DC increases by 5. When you finish a Short or Long 
Rest, the DC resets to 10. 


LEVEL 13: IMPROVED BRUTAL STRIKE 

You have honed new ways to attack furiously. The 
following effects are now among your Brutal Strike 
options. 

Staggering Blow. The target has Disadvantage on 
the next saving throw it makes, and it can’t make 
Opportunity Attacks until the start of your next 
turn. 


Sundering Blow. Before the start of your next 
turn, the next attack roll made by another creature 
against the target gains a +5 bonus to the roll. An 
attack roll can gain only one Sundering Blow bonus. 


LEVEL 15: PERSISTENT RAGE 

When you roll Initiative, you can regain all ex- 
pended uses of Rage. After you regain uses of Rage 
in this way, you can’t do so again until you finish a 
Long Rest. 

In addition, your Rage is so fierce that it now lasts 
for 10 minutes without you needing to do anything 
to extend it from round to round. Your Rage ends 
early if you have the Unconscious condition (not 
just the Incapacitated condition) or don Heavy 
armor. 


LEVEL 17: IMPROVED BRUTAL STRIKE 

The extra damage of your Brutal Strike increases to 
2d10. In addition, you can use two different Brutal 
Strike effects whenever you use your Brutal Strike 
feature. 


LEVEL 18: INDOMITABLE MIGHT 

If your total for a Strength check or Strength sav- 
ing throw is less than your Strength score, you can 
use that score in place of the total. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Irresistible Offense is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: PRIMAL CHAMPION 
You embody primal power. Your Strength and Con- 
stitution scores increase by 4, to a maximum of 25. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 53 


SI 


$ 


Р 
$ 
E 
HE 
i 

{ 
ta 
t 


ATH OF THE BERSERKER 


BARBARIAN SUBCLASSES 


A Barbarian subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain levels, as specified in the 
subclass. This section presents the Path of the Ber- 
serker, Path of the Wild Heart, Path of the World 
Tree, and Path of the Zealot subclasses. 


PATH OF THE BERSERKER __ 


Channel Rage into Violent Fury 

Barbarians who walk the Path of the Berserker 
direct their Rage primarily toward violence. Their 
path is one of untrammeled fury, and they thrill in 
the chaos of battle as they allow their Rage to seize 
and empower them. 


LEVEL 3: FRENZY 

If you use Reckless Attack while your Rage is active, 
you deal extra damage to the first target you hit on 
your turn with a Strength-based attack. To deter- 
mine the extra damage, roll a number of d6s equal 
to your Rage Damage bonus, and add them together. 
The damage has the same type as the weapon or 
Unarmed Strike used for the attack. 


LEVEL 6: MINDLESS RAGE 

You have Immunity to the Charmed and Fright- 
ened conditions while your Rage is active. If you're 
Charmed or Frightened when you enter your Rage, 
the condition ends on you. 


LEVEL 10: RETALIATION 

When you take damage from a creature that is 
within 5 feet of you, you can take a Reaction to 
make one melee attack against that creature, using 
a weapon or an Unarmed Strike. 


LEVEL 14: INTIMIDATING PRESENCE 

As a Bonus Action, you can strike terror into others 
with your menacing presence and primal power. 
When you do so, each creature of your choice in a 
30-foot Emanation originating from you must make 
a Wisdom saving throw (DC 8 plus your Strength 
modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a failed save, 

a creature has the Frightened condition for 1 min- 
ute. At the end of each of the Frightened creature's 
turns, the creature repeats the save, ending the ef- 
fect on itself on a success. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a use 
of your Rage (no action required) to restore your 
use of it. 


ALDITHA SIREGAR 


PATH OF т. WILD HEART 

Walk in Community with the Animal World 
Barbarians who follow the Path of the Wild Heart 
view themselves as kin to animals. These Barbar- 
ians learn magical means to communicate with an- 
imals, and their Rage heightens their connection to 
animals as it fills them with supernatural might. 


LEVEL 3: ANIMAL SPEAKER 

You can cast the Beast Sense and Speak with Animals 
spells but only as Rituals. Wisdom is your spellcast- 
ing ability for them. 


LEVEL 3: RAGE OF THE WILDS es 
Your Rage taps into the primal power of animals. 
Whenever you activate your Rage, you gain one of 
the following options of your choice. 

Bear. While your Rage is active, you have Resis- 
tance to every damage type except Force, Necrotic, 
Psychic, and Radiant. 

Eagle. When you activate your Rage, you can take 
the Disengage and Dash actions as part of that Bo- 
nus Action. While your Rage is active, you can take 
a Bonus Action to take both of those actions. 

Wolf. While your Rage is active, your allies have 
Advantage on attack rolls against any enemy of 
yours within 5 feet of you. 


LEVEL 6: ASPECT OF THE WILDS 

You gain one of the following options of your 
choice. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can 
change your choice. 

Owl. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. 
If you already have Darkvision, its range increases 
by 60 feet. 

Panther. You have a Climb Speed equal to your 
Speed. 

Salmon. You have a Swim Speed equal to your 
Speed. 


LEVEL 10: NATURE SPEAKER 

You can cast the Commune with Nature spell but 
only as a Ritual. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability 
for it. 


LEVEL 14: POWER OF THE WILDS 
Whenever you activate your Rage, you gain one of 
the following options of your choice. 

Falcon. While your Rage is active, you have a Fly 
Speed equal to your Speed if you aren't wearing any 
armor. 

Lion. While your Rage is active, any of your ene- 
mies within 5 feet of you have Disadvantage on at- 
tack rolls against targets other than you or another 
Barbarian who has this option active. 

Ram. While your Rage is active, you can cause a 
Large or smaller creature to have the Prone condi- 
tion when you hit it with a melee attack. 


Рлтн oF THE Wiro HEART 


SuBCLASS 


THE Моя: о TREE 


PATH OF THE WORLD TREE 

Trace the Roots and Branches of the Multiverse 
Barbarians who follow the Path of the World Tree 
connect with the cosmic tree Yggdrasil through 
their Rage. This tree grows among the Outer Planes, 
connecting them to each other and the Material 
Plane. These Barbarians draw on the tree's magic 
for vitality and as a means of dimensional travel. 


LEVEL 3: VITALITY OF THE TREE 
Your Rage taps into the life force of the World Tree. 


You gain the following benefits. 

Vitality Surge. When you activate your Rage, you 
gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to 
your Barbarian level. 

Life-Giving Force. At the start of each of your 
turns while your Rage is active, you can choose 
another creature within 10 feet of yourself to gain 
Temporary Hit Points. To determine the number of 
Temporary Hit Points, roll a number of d6s equal to 
your Rage Damage bonus, and add them together. 
If any of these Temporary Hit Points remain when 
your Rage ends, they vanish. 


LEVEL 6: BRANCHES OF THE TREE 

Whenever a creature you can see starts its turn 
within 30 feet of you while your Rage is active, you 
can take a Reaction to summon spectral branches 

of the World Tree around it. The target must suc- 
ceed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus your 
Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or be tele- 
ported to an unoccupied space you can see within 5 
feet of yourself or in the nearest unoccupied space 
you can see. After the target teleports, you can re- 
duce its Speed to O until the end of the current turn. 


LEVEL 10: BATTERING ROOTS 

During your turn, your reach is 10 feet greater with 
any Melee weapon that has the Heavy or Versatile 
property, as tendrils of the World Tree extend from 
you. When you hit with such a weapon on your 
turn, you can activate the Push or Topple mastery 
property in addition to a different mastery property 
youre using with that weapon. 


LEVEL 14: TRAVEL ALONG THE TREE 

When you activate your Rage and as a Bonus Action 
while your Rage is active, you can teleport up to 60 
feet to an unoccupied space you can see. 

In addition, once per Rage, you can increase the 
range of that teleport to 150 feet. When you do so, 
you can also bring up to six willing creatures who 
are within 10 feet of you. Each creature teleports to 
an unoccupied space of your choice within 10 feet 
of your destination space. 


PATH OF TH 


Rage in Ecstatic Union with a God 


Е ZEALOT 


Barbarians who walk the Path of the Zealot receive 
boons from a god or pantheon. These Barbarians 
experience their Rage as an ecstatic episode of 
divine union that infuses them with power. They 
are often allies to the priests and other followers of 
their god or pantheon. 


LEVEL 3: DIVINE FURY 

You can channel divine power into your strikes. On 
each of your turns while your Rage is active, the 
first creature you hit with a weapon or an Unarmed 
Strike takes extra damage equal to 1d6 plus half 
your Barbarian level (round down). The extra dam- 
age is Necrotic or Radiant; you choose the type each 
time you deal the damage. 


LEVEL 3: WARRIOR OF THE GODS 
A divine entity helps ensure you can continue the 
fight. You have a pool of four d12s that you can 
spend to heal yourself. As a Bonus Action, you can 
expend dice from the pool, roll them, and regain a 
number of Hit Points equal to the roll's total. 

Your pool regains all expended dice when you fin- 
ish a Long Rest. 

The pool's maximum number of dice increases by 
one when you reach Barbarian levels 6 (5 dice), 12 
(6 dice), and 17 (7 dice). 


LEVEL 6: FANATICAL Focus 

Once per active Rage, if you fail a saving throw, you 
can reroll it with a bonus equal to your Rage Dam- 
age bonus, and you must use the new roll. 


LEVEL 10: ZEALOUS PRESENCE 

As a Bonus Action, you unleash a battle cry infused 
with divine energy. Up to ten other creatures of 
your choice within 60 feet of you gain Advantage 
on attack rolls and saving throws until the start of 
your next turn. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a use 
of your Rage (no action required) to restore your 
use of it. 


LEVEL 14: RAGE OF THE GODS 
When you activate your Rage, you can assume the 
form of a divine warrior. This form lasts for 1 min- 
ute or until you drop to O Hit Points. Once you use 
this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a 
Long Rest. 
While in this form, you gain the benefits below. 
Flight. You have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed 
and can hover. 


Resistance. You have Resistance to Necrotic, Psy- 
chic, and Radiant damage. 

Revivification. When a creature within 30 feet 
of you would drop to O Hit Points, you can take a 
Reaction to expend a use of your Rage to instead 
change the target's Hit Points to a number equal to 
your Barbarian level. 


Jm 
тй 


PATH ОЕ THE ZEALOT 


SuBCLASS 


, and Magic 


An Inspiring Performer of Music, Dance 


yh ЭТ 


EVYN FONG 


CORE BARD TRAITS 
Primary Ability 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Charisma 
D8 per Bard level 


Dexterity and Charisma 
Skill Proficiencies Choose any 3 skills (see 
chapter 1) 

Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons 
Tool Proficiencies Choose 3 Musical Instruments 
(see chapter 6) 

Light armor 


Choose A or B: (A) Leather 
Armor, 2 Daggers, Musical 
Instrument of your choice, 
Entertainer’s Pack, and 19 
GP; or (B) 90 GP 


Armor Training 


Starting Equipment 


“ОК NVOKING MAGIC THROUGH MUSIC, DANCE, 


| | and verse, Bards are expert at inspiring others, 
4. soothing hurts, disheartening foes, and creat- 
ing illusions. Bards believe the multiverse was spo- 
ken into existence and that remnants of its Words 
of Creation still resound and glimmer on every 
plane of existence. Bardic magic attempts to harness 
those words, which transcend any language. 

Anything can inspire a new song or tale, so Bards 
are fascinated by almost everything. They become 
masters of many things, including performing mu- 
sic, working magic, and making jests. 

A Bard's life is spent traveling, gathering lore, tell- 
ing stories, and living on the gratitude of audiences, 
much like any other entertainer. But Bards' depth of 
knowledge and mastery of magic sets them apart. 


BECOMING A BARD... | 


AS A LEVEL] CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits in the Core Bard Traits table. 

- Gain the Bard's level 1 features, which are listed in 
the Bard Features table. 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

- Gain the following traits from the Core Bard 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency in one skill 
of your choice, proficiency with one Musical In- 
strument of your choice, and training with Light 
armor. 

- Gain the Bard's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Bard Features table. See the multiclassing 
rules in chapter 2 to determine your available 
spell slots. 


= 
ba 
BARD CLASS FEATURES 
As a Bard, you gain the following class features 


when you reach the specified Bard levels. These fea- 
tures are listed in the Bard Features table. 


| 


| 
| 


| 


LEVEL 1: BARDIC INSPIRATION 

You can supernaturally inspire others through 
words, music, or dance. This inspiration is repre- 
sented by your Bardic Inspiration die, which is a d6. 

Using Bardic Inspiration. As a Bonus Action, you 
can inspire another creature within 60 feet of your- 
self who can see or hear you. That creature gains 
one of your Bardic Inspiration dice. A creature can 
have only one Bardic Inspiration die at a time. 

Once within the next hour when the creature fails 
a D20 Test, the creature can roll the Bardic Inspira- 
tion die and add the number rolled to the d20, po- 
tentially turning the failure into a success. A Bardic 
Inspiration die is expended when it's rolled. 

Number of Uses. You can confer a Bardic Inspira- 
tion die a number of times equal to your Charisma 
modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all ex- 
pended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 

At Higher Levels. Your Bardic Inspiration die 
changes when you reach certain Bard levels, as 
shown in the Bardic Die column of the Bard Fea- 
tures table. The die becomes a d8 at level 5, a 410 at 
level 10, and a d12 at level 15. 


LEVEL |: SPELLCASTING 

You have learned to cast spells through your bardic 
arts. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The 
information below details how you use those rules 
with Bard spells, which appear in the Bard spell list 
later in the class’s description. 

Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice 
from the Bard spell list. Dancing Lights and Vicious 
Mockery are recommended. 

Whenever you gain a Bard level, you can replace 
one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your 
choice from the Bard spell list. 

When you reach Bard levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another cantrip of your choice from the Bard spell 
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Bard 
Features table. 

Spell Slots. The Bard Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells. 
You regain all expended slots when you finish a 
Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To start, choose four level 1 spells from 
the Bard spell list. Charm Person, Color Spray, Disso- 
nant Whispers, and Healing Word are recommended. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 59 


BARD FEATURES ái 
Р Bardic 

nc А 

Ргоћсіепсу Die 


Level Bonus Class Features 

1 +2 Bardic Inspiration, D6 
Spellcasting 
2 +2 Expertise, D6 
Jack of All Trades 

3 +2 Bard Subclass D6 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement D6 
5 +3 Font of Inspiration D8 
6 +3 Subclass feature D8 
7 +3 Countercharm D8 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement D8 
9 +4 Expertise D8 
10 +4 Magical Secrets D10 
1 +4 — D10 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement D10 
13 +5 — D10 
14 +5 Subclass feature D10 
15 +5 — D12 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement D12 
17 +6 — D12 
18 +6 Superior Inspiration D12 
19 +6 Epic Boon D12 
20 +6 Words of Creation D12 


The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Bard levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Bard Features table. Whenever that 
number increases, choose additional spells from the 
Bard spell list until the number of spells on your list 
matches the number on the table. The chosen spells 
must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For 
example, if you're a level 3 Bard, your list of pre- 
pared spells can include six spells of levels 1 and 2 in 
any combination. 

If another Bard feature gives you spells that you 
always have prepared, those spells don't count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Bard spells for you. 

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
gain a Bard level, you can replace one spell on your 
list with another Bard spell for which you have spell 
slots. 

Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is your spellcasting 
ability for your Bard spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Musical Instru- 
ment as a Spellcasting Focus for your Bard spells. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


Mera odiare pre 
-— €———— 
coo to rM prae зоа 


Cantrips 


Prepared Spell Slots per Spell Leve}-—_ 

Spells 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 à 9 
2 4 ?—— — — — — — — 
2 5 3 — = 
2 6 4 2 — — — — — — — 
3 7 4 3 — — — — — ~~ 
3 9 4 3 2 — — — — — — 
3 0 433————-—-— 
3 n %`% 8 Yd = == есы шы 
3 12 à 3 2S 8: oe эы eu 
3 14 à 35 3 Ф 7 == ља 
4 15 4 3 3 3 2 — — — — 
4 16 4 3 3 3 2 1 — — — 
4 16 4 3 3 3 2 1 — — — 
4 17 4 3 3 3 2 1 17 — 2 
4 7 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 = — 
4 18 43 9.3 2 T Yd T = 
4 18 4 3.3 3 2 T X. 3 a 
4 19 es ses 2 y qd * 1 
4 20 4 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 
4 21 499^ $ 23 3 2 T. Т 1 
4 22 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 |] 


LEVEL 2: EXPERTISE 
You gain Expertise (see the rules glossary) in two of 
your skill proficiencies of your choice. Performance 
and Persuasion are recommended if you have profi- 
ciency in them. 

At Bard level 9, you gain Expertise in two more of 
your skill proficiencies of your choice. 


LEVEL 2: JACK OF ALL TRADES 
You can add half your Proficiency Bonus (round 
down) to any ability check you make that uses a 
skill proficiency you lack and that doesn't otherwise 
use your Proficiency Bonus. 

For example, if you make a Strength (Athletics) 
check and lack Athletics proficiency, you can add 
half your Proficiency Bonus to the check. 


LEVEL 3: BARD SUBCLASS 

You gain a Bard subclass of your choice. The College 
of Dance, College of Glamour, College of Lore, and 
College of Valor subclasses are detailed after this 
class's description. A subclass is a specialization that 
grants you features at certain Bard levels. For the 
rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's 
features that are of your Bard level or lower. 


LO ——————————————————— 
A BARD's REPERTOIRE 
Does your Bard beat a drum while chanting the 
deeds of ancient heroes? Strum a lute while 
crooning romantic tunes? Perform arias of stir- 
ring power? Recite dramatic monologues from 
classic tragedies? Use the rhythm of a folk dance 
to coordinate the movement of allies in battle? 
Compose naughty limericks? 

When you play a Bard, consider the style of 
artistic performance you favor, the moods you 
might invoke, and the themes that inspire your 
own creations. Are your poems inspired by mo- 
ments of natural beauty, or are they brooding 
reflections on loss? Do you prefer lofty hymns or 
rowdy tavern songs? Are you drawn to laments 
for the fallen or celebrations of joy? Do you dance 
merry jigs or perform elaborate interpretive cho- 
reography? Do you focus on one style of perfor- 
mance or strive to master them all? 

ч е ———— 
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Bard lev- 
els 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: FONT OF INSPIRATION 
You now regain all your expended uses of Bardic In- 
spiration when you finish a Short or Long Rest. 

In addition, you can expend a spell slot (no action 
required) to regain one expended use of Bardic 
Inspiration. 


LEVEL 7: COUNTERCHARM 

You can use musical notes or words of power to dis- 
rupt mind-influencing effects. If you or a creature 
within 30 feet of you fails a saving throw against an 
effect that applies the Charmed or Frightened con- 
dition, you can take a Reaction to cause the save to 
be rerolled, and the new roll has Advantage. 


LEVEL 10: MAGICAL SECRETS 

You've learned secrets from various magical tradi- 
tions. Whenever you reach a Bard level (including 
this level) and the Prepared Spells number in the 
Bard Features table increases, you can choose any 
of your new prepared spells from the Bard, Cleric, 
Druid, and Wizard spell lists, and the chosen spells 
count as Bard spells for you (see a class's section for 
its spell list). In addition, whenever you replace a 
spell prepared for this class, you can replace it with 
a spell from those lists. 


LEVEL 18: SUPERIOR INSPIRATION 

When you roll Initiative, you regain expended uses 
of Bardic Inspiration until you have two if you have 
fewer than that. 


A BARO SHAPES INSPIRATION 
AND IMAGINATION INTO MAGIC, NR 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Spell Recall is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: WORDS OF CREATION 

You have mastered two of the Words of Creation: 
the words of life and death. You therefore always 
have the Power Word Heal and Power Word Kill spells 
prepared. When you cast either spell, you can target 
a second creature with it if that creature is within 
10 feet of the first target. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES A 9t 


—- 


BARD SPELL LIST Spell School Special 
This section presents the Bard spell list. The spells Tasha's Hideous Laughter Enchantment С 
are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, Thunderwave Evocation __ 
and each spell's school of magic is listed. In the Spe- Unseen Servant Conjuration R 
cial column, C means the spell requires Concentra- 
tion, R means it’s a Ritual, and M means it requires a LeveL 2 BARD SPELLS 
specific Material component. 
Spell School Special 
CANTRIPS (LEVEL O BARD SPELLS) Aid Abjuration _ 
Spell School Special Animal Messenger Enchantment R 
Blade Ward Abjuration С Blindness/Deafness Transmutation — — 
Dancing Lights Illusion c Calm Emotions Enchantment C 
Friends Enchantment c Cloud of Daggers Conjuration С 
Light Evocation ud Crown of Madness Enchantment € 
Mage Hand Conjuration px Detect Thoughts Divination C 
Mending Transmutation — Enhance Ability Transmutation C 
Message Transmutation — Enlarge/Reduce Transmutation c 
Minor Illusion Illusion — Enthrall Enchantment с 
Prestidigitation Transmutation — — Heat Metal e —ÁÜ C 
Starry Wisp Evocation йы Hold Person Enchantment C 
[шер Evocation D Invisibility Illusion C 
en шщ Divination = Knock Transmutation — 
Vicious Mockery Enchantment ES Lesser Restoration Abjuration ЕС 
LEVEL 1 BARD SPELLS Locate Animals or Plants Divination R 
Spell School Special Locate Object Divination C 
Animal Friendship Enchantment — Magie Mouth шон RaM 
Bane Enchantment C Mirror Image Illusion == 
Charm Person Enchantment 2- Phantasmal Force Illusion C 
Color Spray Illusion __ See Invisibility Divination E 
Command Enchantment — — Shatter Evocation — 
Comprehend Languages Divination R Silence Illusion C,R 
Cure Wounds Abjuration m Suggestion Enchantment C 
Detect Magic Divination C, R Zone of Truth Enchantment — 
й d , [шп Е LEVEL 3 BARD SPELLS 
Dissonant Whispers Enchantment = 
Faerie Fire Evocation C rust C School Special 
Feather Fall Transmutation — : i кешу а 
bj Healing Word Abjuration = E a PA M RUM 
А | Heroism Enchantment C NS Magic Abjuration = 
j Identify Divination R, M in Bos Illusion С 
{ Illusory Script Illusion R, M СІ А h m ; талу à 
F Longstrider Transmutation — ie АЦА Аргал M 
pp Silent Image "mem м Hypnotic Pattern Illusion С 
Leomund's Tiny Hut Evocation R 
Sleep Enchantment С Maior | 1 
Speak with Animals Divination R aes тар illusign T 
Mass Healing Word Abjuration S 


Spell 
Nondetection 
Plant Growth 
Sending 

Slow 

Speak with Dead 
Speak with Plants 
Stinking Cloud 
Tongues 


LEVEL 4 BARD SPELLS 
Spell 

Charm Monster 
Compulsion 

Confusion 

Dimension Door 
Fount of Moonlight 
Freedom of Movement 
Greater Invisibility 
Hallucinatory Terrain 
Locate Creature 
Phantasmal Killer 
Polymorph 


LEVEL 5 BARD SPELLS 
Spell 

Animate Objects 
Awaken 

Dominate Person 
Dream 

Geas 

Greater Restoration 
Hold Monster 

Legend Lore 

Mass Cure Wounds 
Mislead 

Modify Memory 
Planar Binding 

Raise Dead 

Rary’s Telepathic Bond 
Serying 

Seeming 

Synaptic Static 
Teleportation Circle 
Yolande’s Regal Presence 


School 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Transmutation 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 


Divination 


School 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Evocation 
Abjuration 
Illusion 
Illusion 
Divination 
Illusion 


Transmutation 


School 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Enchantment 
Illusion 
Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Enchantment 
Divination 
Abjuration 
Illusion 
Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Divination 
Divination 
Illusion 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 


Special 
M 


[s 


Special 


С 
С 


Special 
C 
M 
C 


LEVEL 6 BARD SPELLS 
Spell 

Eyebite 

Find the Path 

Guards and Wards 
Heroes’ Feast 

Mass Suggestion 

Otto’s Irresistible Dance 
Programmed Illusion 
True Seeing 


LEVEL 7 BARD SPELLS 
Spell 

Etherealness 

Forcecage 


Mirage Arcane 


Mordenkainen’s Magnificent 


Mansion 
Mordenkainen’s Sword 
Power Word Fortify 
Prismatic Spray 
Project Image 
Regenerate 
Resurrection 

Symbol 

Teleport 


LEvEL 8 BARD SPELLS 
Spell 
Antipathy/Sympathy 
Befuddlement 

Dominate Monster 
Glibness 

Mind Blank 

Power Word Stun 


LEVEL 9 BARD SPELLS 
Spell 
Foresight 
Power Word Heal 
Power Word Kill 
Prismatic Wall 


True Polymorph 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


School 


Necromancy 


Divination 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Illusion 


Divination 


School 
Conjuration 
Evocation 
Illusion 


Conjuration 


Evocation 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Illusion 
Transmutation 
Necromancy 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 


School 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Enchantment 


School 
Divination 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 


Special 


< < 


$ресїа! 


C 


63 


Co.tece or Dance 
SuBciass 


BARD SUBCLASSES 
A Bard subclass is a specialization that grants you 
features at certain Bard levels, as specified in the 
subclass. Bards form loose associations, which 
they call colleges, to preserve their traditions. This 
section presents the College of Dance, College of 
Glamour, College of Lore, and College of Valor 


subclasses. 


COLLEGE OF DANCE 


Move in Harmony with the Cosmos 

Bards of the College of Dance know that the Words 
of Creation can't be contained within speech or 
song; the words are uttered by the movements of 
celestial bodies and flow through the motions of 
the smallest creatures. These Bards practice a way 
of being in harmony with the whirling cosmos that 
emphasizes agility, speed, and grace. 


LEVEL 3: DAZZLING FOOTWORK 
While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a 
Shield, you gain the following benefits. 

Dance Virtuoso. You have Advantage on any Cha- 
risma (Performance) check you make that involves 
you dancing. 

Unarmored Defense. Your base Armor Class equals 
10 plus your Dexterity and Charisma modifiers. 

Agile Strikes. When you expend a use of your Bar- 
dic Inspiration as part of an action, a Bonus Action, 
or a Reaction, you can make one Unarmed Strike as 
part of that action, Bonus Action, or Reaction. 

Bardic Damage. You can use Dexterity instead 
of Strength for the attack rolls of your Unarmed 
Strikes. When you deal damage with an Unarmed 
Strike, you can deal Bludgeoning damage equal to a 
roll of your Bardic Inspiration die plus your Dexter- 
ity modifier, instead of the strike's normal damage. 
This roll doesn't expend the die. 


LEVEL 6: INSPIRING MOVEMENT 
When an enemy you can see ends its turn within 5 
feet of you, you can take a Reaction and expend one 
use of your Bardic Inspiration to move up to half 
your Speed. Then one ally of your choice within 30 
feet of you can also move up to half their Speed us- 
ing their Reaction. 

None of this feature's movement provokes Oppor- 
tunity Attacks. 


LEVEL 6: TANDEM FOOTWORK 

When you roll Initiative, you can expend one use 

of your Bardic Inspiration if you don't have the 
Incapacitated condition. When you do so, roll your 
Bardic Inspiration die; you and each ally within 30 
feet of you who can see or hear you gains a bonus to 
Initiative equal to the number rolled. 


LEVEL 14: LEADING EVASION 
When you are subjected to an effect that allows you 
to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half 
damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed 
on the saving throw and only half damage if you 
fail. If any creatures within 5 feet of you are making 
the same Dexterity saving throw, you can share this 
benefit with them for that save. 

You can't use this feature if you have the Incapaci- 
tated condition. 


COLLEGE OF GLAMOUR 
Weave Beguiling Fey Magic 


The College of Glamour traces its origins to the be- 
guiling magic of the Feywild. Bards who study this 
magic weave threads of beauty and terror into their 
songs and stories, and the mightiest among them 
can cloak themselves in otherworldly majesty. Their 
performances stir up wistful longing for forgotten 
innocence, evoke unconscious memories of long- 
held fears, and tug at the emotions of even the most 
hard-hearted listeners. 


LEVEL 3: BEGUILING MAGIC 
You always have the Charm Person and Mirror Image 
spells prepared. 

In addition, immediately after you cast an En- 
chantment or Illusion spell using a spell slot, you 
can cause a creature you can see within 60 feet of 
yourself to make a Wisdom saving throw against 
your spell save DC. On a failed save, the target has 
the Charmed or Frightened condition (your choice) 
for 1 minute. The target repeats the save at the end 
of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a 
success. 

Once you use this benefit, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore 
your use of it by expending one use of your Bardic 
Inspiration (no action required). 


LEVEL 3: MANTLE OF INSPIRATION 

You can weave fey magic into a song or dance to 

fill others with vigor. As a Bonus Action, you can 
expend a use of Bardic Inspiration, rolling a Bardic 
Inspiration die. When you do so, choose a number 
of other creatures within 60 feet of yourself, up to a 
number equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 
of one creature). Each of those creatures gains a 
number of Temporary Hit Points equal to two times 
the number rolled on the Bardic Inspiration die, 
and then each can use its Reaction to move up to its 
Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks. 


LEVEL 6: MANTLE OF MAJESTY 
You always have the Command spell prepared. 

As a Bonus Action, you cast Command without 
expending a spell slot, and you take on an unearthly 


Co.tece оғ GLaMoUR «| © o 
SuacLASS zzi 


appearance for 1 minute or until your Сопсе:!га- 
tion ends. During this time, you can cast Coimand 
as a Bonus Action without expending a speli siot, 

Any creature Charmed by you automatically fails 
its saving throw against the Command you cast with 
this feature. 

Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore 
your use of it by expending a level 3+ spell slot (no 
action required). 


LEVEL 14: UNBREAKABLE MAJESTY 
As a Bonus Action, you can assume a magically 
majestic presence for 1 minute or until you have the 
Incapacitated condition. For the duration, whenever 
any creature hits you with an attack roll for the 
first time on a turn, the attacker must succeed on a 
Charisma saving throw against your spell save DC, 
or the attack misses instead, as the creature recoils 
from your majesty. 

Once you assume this majestic presence, you can't 
do so again until you finish a Short or Long Rest. 


COLLEGE OF LORE 
Plumb the Depths of Magical Knowledge 


Bards of the College of Lore collect spells and se- 
crets from diverse sources, such as scholarly tomes, 
mystical rites, and peasant tales. The college's mem- 
bers gather in libraries and universities to share 
their lore with one another. They also meet at festi- 
vals or affairs of state, where they can expose cor- 
ruption, unravel lies, and poke fun at self-important 
figures of authority. 


LEVEL 3: BONUS PROFICIENCIES 
You gain proficiency with three skills of your 
choice. 


LEVEL 3: CUTTING WoRDS 

You learn to use your wit to supernaturally distract, 
confuse, and otherwise sap the confidence and 
competence of others. When a creature that you 
can see within 60 feet of yourself makes a damage 
roll or succeeds on an ability check or attack roll, 
you can take a Reaction to expend one use of your 
Bardic Inspiration; roll your Bardic Inspiration die, 
and subtract the number rolled from the creature's 
roll, reducing the damage or potentially turning the 
success into a failure. 


LEVEL 6: MAGICAL DISCOVERIES 

| You learn two spells of your choice. These spells can 
Custos Ton ‚ " E come from the Cleric, Druid, or Wizard spell list or 
any combination thereof (see a class's section for its 
spell list). A spell you choose must be a cantrip or a 
spell for which you have spell slots, as shown in the 
Bard Features table. 


You always have the chosen spells prepared, and 
whenever you gain a Bard level, you can replace 
one of the spells with another spell that meets these 
requirements. 


LEVEL 14: PEERLESS SKILL 

When you make an ability check or attack roll and 
fail, you can expend one use of Bardic Inspiration; 
roll the Bardic Inspiration die, and add the number 
rolled to the d20, potentially turning a failure into 
a success. On a failure, the Bardic Inspiration isn’t 
expended. 


COLLEGE OF VALOR 
Sing the Deeds of Ancient Heroes 


Bards of the College of Valor are daring storytell- 
ers whose tales preserve the memory of the great 
heroes of the past. These Bards sing the deeds of 
the mighty in vaulted halls or to crowds gathered 
around great bonfires. They travel to witness great 
events firsthand and to ensure that the memory of 
these events doesn’t pass away. With their songs, 
they inspire new generations to reach the same 
heights of accomplishment as the heroes of old. 


LEVEL 3: COMBAT INSPIRATION 

You can use your wit to turn the tide of battle. A 
creature that has a Bardic Inspiration die from you 
can use it for one of the following effects. 

Defense. When the creature is hit by an attack 
roll, that creature can use its Reaction to roll the 
Bardic Inspiration die and add the number rolled to 
its AC against that attack, potentially causing the 
attack to miss. 

Offense. Immediately after the creature hits a 
target with an attack roll, the creature can roll the 
Bardic Inspiration die and add the number rolled to 
the attack’s damage against the target. 


LEVEL 3: MARTIAL TRAINING 
You gain proficiency with Martial weapons and 
training with Medium armor and Shields. 

In addition, you can use a Simple or Martial 
weapon as a Spellcasting Focus to cast spells from 
your Bard spell list. 


LEVEL 6: ExTRA ATTACK 
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn. 

In addition, you can cast one of your cantrips that 
has a casting time of an action in place of one of 
those attacks. 


LEVEL 14: BATTLE MAGIC 

After you cast a spell that has a casting time of an 
action, you can make one attack with a weapon as a 
Bonus Action. 


COLLEGE oF VALOR 


Su8cLASS 


° Li 


vine 


t 


№ 


А Miraculous Priest of 


UV. 


MICHAEL BROUSSARD 


i 
i 
L 


ConE CLERIC TRAITS iit 


Primary Ability 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Wisdom 

D8 per Cleric level 
Wisdom and Charisma 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: History, Insight, 
Medicine, Persuasion, or 
Religion 

Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons 

Light and Medium armor 
and Shields 

Choose A or B: (A) Chain 
Shirt, Shield, Mace, Holy 
Symbol, Priest’s Pack, and 7 
GP; or (B) 110 GP 


Armor Training 


Starting Equipment 


ee ee | 


Nerang апараг S уд. ae 


А Став 


47 LERICS DRAW POWER FROM THE REALMS 

| of the gods and harness it to work miracles. 
N> Blessed by a deity, a pantheon, or another 
immortal entity, a Cleric can reach out to the divine 
magic of the Outer Planes—where gods dwell—and 
channel it to bolster people and battle foes. 

Because their power is a divine gift, Clerics typ- 
ically associate themselves with temples dedicated 
to the deity or other immortal force that unlocked 
their magic. Harnessing divine magic doesn't rely 
on specific training, yet Clerics might learn prayers 
and rites that help them draw on power from the 
Outer Planes. 

Not every member of a temple or shrine is a 
Cleric. Some priests are called to a simple life of 
temple service, carrying out their devotion through 
prayer and rituals, not through magic. Many mor- 
tals claim to speak for the gods, but few can marshal 
the power of those gods the way a Cleric can. 


BECOMING A CLERIC ... 


AS A LEVEL] CHARACTER 

* Gain all the traits in the Core Cleric Traits table. 

+ Gain the Cleric's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Cleric Features table. 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

- Gain the following traits from the Core Cleric 
Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light 
and Medium armor and Shields. 

- Gain the Cleric's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Cleric Features table. See the multiclassing 
rules in chapter 2 to determine your available 
spell slots. 


CLERIC CLASS FEATURES 


As a Cleric, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Cleric levels. These 
features are listed in the Cleric Features table. 


LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING 

You have learned to cast spells through prayer and 
meditation. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcast- 
ing. The information below details how you use 
those rules with Cleric spells, which appear on the 
Cleric spell list later in the class’s description. 

Cantrips. You know three cantrips of your choice 
from the Cleric spell list. Guidance, Sacred Flame, and 
Thaumaturgy are recommended. 

Whenever you gain a Cleric level, you can replace 
one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your 
choice from the Cleric spell list. 

When you reach Cleric levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another cantrip of your choice from the Cleric spell 
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Cleric 
Features table. 

Spell Slots. The Cleric Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells. 
You regain all expended slots when you finish a 
Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To start, choose four level 1 spells from 
the Cleric spell list. Bless, Cure Wounds, Guiding Bolt, 
and Shield of Faith are recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Cleric levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Cleric Features table. Whenever that 
number increases, choose additional spells from the 
Cleric spell list until the number of spells on your 
list matches the number on the table. The chosen 
spells must be of a level for which you have spell 
slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Cleric, your list 
of prepared spells can include six spells of levels 1 
and 2 in any combination. 

If another Cleric feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don't count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Cleric spells for you. 

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre- 
pared spells, replacing any of the spells there with 
other Cleric spells for which you have spell slots. 

Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting 
ability for your Cleric spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Holy Symbol as a 
Spellcasting Focus for your Cleric spells. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


69 


Spell Slots per Speli 1 2vel 


CLERIC FEATURES : — 
re 
ar d Class Features DH Cantrips Spells 1 2 3 4 м 6 7 8 9 

1 +2 Spellcasting, Divine Order — 3 4 2 — — — P SR 
2 +2 Channel Divinity 2 3 5 3 — — Ll 
3 +2 Cleric Subclass 2 3 6 @ gri c. nep ЕЕ een. сше мз _ 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 2 4 7 4 3 = = — x. M 
5 +3 Sear Undead 2 4 9 a 8. Д0 == ш. ээ ee 
6 +3 Subclass feature 3 4 10 4 3 3 == ы аә c u 
7 +3 Blessed Strikes 3 4 1 4 3 3 T = oe. 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 3 4 12 4 3. 3 2 — — ee xs 
9 +4 — 3 4 14 4 3.9. 335. 1 e = ce a 
10 +4 Divine Intervention 3 5 15 4 3. 3 3. 2 == — — a 
n +4 — 3 5 16 43 3 3 2 Т = 808 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 3 5 16 A 3 3 2 2 1 = zu 
13 +5 — 3 5 7 4 3 3 9g 2 Y T — ш 
14 +5 Improved Blessed Strikes 3 5 7 A g 3 2 d. Ub Pee ee 
15 +5 — 3 5 18 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1:7 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 3 5 18 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 — 
7 +6 Subclass feature 3 5 19 43 з 3 2 T T T4 
18 +6 — 4 5 20 4 3 3 3 3 ]! 1 1 
19 16 Epic Boon 4 5 21 4 $9 3 3 3 2 1 TH 
20 +6 Greater Divine Intervention 4 5 22 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 71 |] 


LEVEL 1: DIVINE ORDER 
You have dedicated yourself to one of the following 
sacred roles of your choice. 

Protector. Trained for battle, you gain proficiency 
with Martial weapons and training with Heavy 


armor. 
Thaumaturge. You know one extra cantrip from 
the Cleric spell list. In addition, your mystical con- 
nection to the divine gives you a bonus to your 
Intelligence (Arcana or Religion) checks. The bonus 
equals your Wisdom modifier (minimum of +1). 


LEVEL 2: CHANNEL DIVINITY 

You can channel divine energy directly from the 
Outer Planes to fuel magical effects. You start with 
two such effects: Divine Spark and Turn Undead, 
each of which is described below. Each time you use 
this class's Channel Divinity, choose which Channel 
Divinity effect from this class to create. You gain 
additional effect options at higher Cleric levels. 

You can use this class's Channel Divinity twice. 
You regain one of its expended uses when you finish 
a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. You gain additional uses 
when you reach certain Cleric levels, as shown in 
the Channel Divinity column of the Cleric Features 
table. 


Eo ! R 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


Amt Todi 


If a Channel Divinity effect requires a saving 
throw, the DC equals the spell save DC from this 
class's Spellcasting feature. 

Divine Spark. As a Magic action, you point your 
Holy Symbol at another creature you can see within 
30 feet of yourself and focus divine energy at it. 

Roll 1d8 and add your Wisdom modifier. You either 
restore Hit Points to the creature equal to that total 
or force the creature to make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes Necrotic 
or Radiant damage (your choice) equal to that to- 
tal. On a successful save, the creature takes half as 
much damage (round down). 

You roll an additional d8 when you reach Cleric 
levels 7 (248), 13 (548), and 18 (448). 

Turn Undead. As a Magic action, you present your 
Holy Symbol and censure Undead creatures. Each 
Undead of your choice within 30 feet of you must 
make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails 
its save, it has the Frightened and Incapacitated 
conditions for 1 minute. For that duration, it tries 
to move as far from you as it can on its turns. This 
effect ends early on the creature if it takes any dam- 
age, if you have the Incapacitated condition, or if 
you die. 


LEVEL 3: Сокі SUBCLASS 

You gain a Cleric subclass of your choice. The Life 
Domain, Light Domain, Trickery Domain, and War 
Domain subclasses are detailed after this class's de- 
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Cleric levels. For the rest of 
your career, you gain each of your subclass's fea- 
tures that are of your Cleric level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Cleric 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: SEAR UNDEAD 

Whenever you use Turn Undead, you can rolla 
number of d8s equal to your Wisdom modifier 
(minimum of 1d8) and add the rolls together. Each 
Undead that fails its saving throw against that use 
of Turn Undead takes Radiant damage equal to the 
roll’s total. This damage doesn't end the turn effect. 


LEVEL 7: BLESSED STRIKES 
Divine power infuses you in battle. You gain one of 
the following options of your choice (if you get ei- 
ther option from a Cleric subclass in an older book, 
use only the option you choose for this feature). 
Divine Strike. Once on each of your turns when 
you hit a creature with an attack roll using a 
weapon, you can cause the target to take an extra 
1d8 Necrotic or Radiant damage (your choice). 
Potent Spellcasting. Add your Wisdom modifier to 
the damage you deal with any Cleric cantrip. 


LEVEL 10: DIVINE INTERVENTION 

You can call on your deity or pantheon to inter- 
vene on your behalf. As a Magic action, choose any 
Cleric spell of level 5 or lower that doesn’t require 
a Reaction to cast. As part of the same action, you 
cast that spell without expending a spell slot or 
needing Material components. You can't use this 
feature again until you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 14: IMPROVED BLESSED STRIKES 
The option you chose for Blessed Strikes grows 
more powerful. 

Divine Strike. The extra damage of your Divine 
Strike increases to 2d8. 

Potent Spellcasting. When you cast a Cleric can- 
trip and deal damage to a creature with it, you 
can give vitality to yourself or another creature 
within 60 feet of yourself, granting a number of 
Temporary Hit Points equal to twice your Wisdom 
modifier. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Fate is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: GREATER DIVINE INTERVENTION 
You can call on even more powerful divine inter- 
vention. When you use your Divine Intervention 
feature, you can choose Wish when you select a 
spell. If you do so, you can't use Divine Intervention 
again until you finish 2d4 Long Rests. 


CLERIC SPELL LIST 


This section presents the Cleric spell list. The spells 
are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, 
and each spell’s school of magic is listed. In the Spe- 
cial column, C means the spell requires Concentra- 
tion, R means it’s a Ritual, and M means it requires a 
specific Material component. 


CANTRIPS (LEVEL O CLERIC SPELLS) 


Spell School Special 
Guidance Divination C 
Light Evocation — 
Mending Transmutation — 
Resistance Abjuration С 
Sacred Flame Evocation — 
Spare the Dying Necromancy — 
Thaumaturgy Transmutation — 
Toll the Dead Necromancy — 
Word of Radiance Evocation — 
LEVEL 1 CLERIC SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Bane Enchantment С 
Bless Enchantment C, M 
Command Enchantment — 
Create or Destroy Water Transmutation — 
Cure Wounds Abjuration — 
Detect Evil and Good Divination C 
Detect Magic Divination C, R 
Detect Poison and Disease Divination C, R 
Guiding Bolt Evocation — 
Healing Word Abjuration — 
Inflict Wounds Necromancy — 
Protection from Evil and Abjuration C, M 
Good 
Purify Food and Drink Transmutation В 
Sanctuary Abjuration — 
Shield of Faith Abjuration [e 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES x 71 


LEVEL 2 CLERIC SPELLS 
Spell 
Aid 
Augury 
Blindness/Deafness 
Calm Emotions 
Continual Flame 
Enhance Ability 
Find Traps 
Gentle Repose 
Hold Person 
Lesser Restoration 
Locate Object 
Prayer of Healing 
Protection from Poison 
Silence 
Spiritual Weapon 
Warding Bond 
Zone of Truth 


LEVEL 3 CLERIC SPELLS 
Spell 
Animate Dead 
Aura of Vitality 
Beacon of Hope 
Bestow Curse 
Clairvoyance 
Create Food and Water 
Daylight 
Dispel Magic 
Feign Death 
Glyph of Warding 
Magic Circle 
Mass Healing Word 
Meld into Stone 
Protection from Energy 
Ў i Remove Curse 
es Revivify 


School 
Abjuration 
Divination 
Transmutation 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Necromancy 
Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Divination 
Abjuration 
Abjuration 
Illusion 
Evocation 
Abjuration 
Enchantment 


School 
Necromancy 
Abjuration 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Divination 
Conjuration 
Evocation 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Abjuration 
Abjuration 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 
Abjuration 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Divination 
Necromancy 
Conjuration 


Divination 


Special 


R,M 
C 
M 
C 


R, M 
C 


Special 


C 
@ 
С 


C, M 


LEVEL 4 CLERIC SPELLS 


Spell 

Aura of Life 
Aura of Purity 
Banishment 
Control Water 
Death Ward 


Divination 


Freedom of Movement 


Guardian of Faith 
Locate Creature 
Stone Shape 


LEVEL 5 CLERIC SPELLS 


Spell 
Circle of Power 
Commune 


Contagion 


Dispel Evil and Good 


Flame Strike 
Geas 


Greater Restoration 


Hallow 
Insect Plague 


Legend Lore 


Mass Cure Wounds 


Planar Binding 
Raise Dead 
Scrying 

Summon Celestial 


LEVEL 6 CLERIC SPELLS 


Spell 
Blade Barrier 
Create Undead 
Find the Path 
Forbiddance 
Harm 
Heal 
Heroes’ Feast 
Planar Ally 
—. Sunbeam 
‘Tue Seeing 
Word of Recall — 


School Special 
Abjuration € 
Abjuration C 
Abjuration C 
Transmutation С 
Abjuration = 
Divination R,M 
Abjuration == 
Conjuration == 
Divination С 
Transmutation — 
School Special 
Abjuration С 
Divination R 
Necromancy — 
Abjuration C 
Evocation — 
Enchantment — 
Abjuration M 
Abjuration M 
Conjuration C 
Divination M 
Abjuration = 
Abjuration M 
Necromancy M 
Divination C, M 
Conjuration C, M 
School Special 
Evocation C 
Necromancy M 
Divination C, M 
Abjuration R, M 
Necromancy — 
Abjuration — 
Conjuration M 
Conjuration — 
Evocation С 
Divination M 


Conjuration — 


Mono. 


Iw 


A CLERIC PRAYS FOR 
THE DAY'S SPELLS. 


LEVEL 7 CLERIC SPELLS 


Spell 

Conjure Celestial 
Divine Word 
Etherealness 

Fire Storm 

Plane Shift 

Power Word Fortify 
Regenerate 
Resurrection 
Symbol 


LEVEL 8 CLERIC SPELLS 


Spell 

Antimagic Field 
Control Weather 
Earthquake 
Holy Aura 


Sunburst 


LEVEL 9 CLERIC SPELLS 


Spell 

Astral Projection 
Gate 

Mass Heal 
Power Word Heal 
True Resurrection 


School Special 
Conjuration C 
Evocation — 
Conjuration — 
Evocation — 
Conjuration M 
Enchantment — 


Transmutation — 


Necromancy M 
Abjuration M 
School Special 
Abjuration C 


Transmutation C 
Transmutation C 


Abjuration C,M 
Evocation — 
School Special 
Necromancy M 
Conjuration C,M 
Abjuration — 
Enchantment — 
Necromancy M 


CLERIC SUBCLASSES 


A Cleric subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Cleric levels, as specified in 
the subclass. Each Cleric subclass is named after a 
domain of existence that is favored by a god, pan- 
theon, or religious order. This section presents the 
Life Domain, Light Domain, Trickery Domain, and 
War Domain subclasses. 


LIFE DOMAIN 
Soothe the Hurts of the World 


The Life Domain focuses on the positive energy that 
helps sustain all life in the multiverse. Clerics who 
tap into this domain are masters of healing, using 
that life force to cure many hurts. 

Existence itself relies on the positive energy asso- 
ciated with this domain, so a Cleric of almost any 
religious tradition might choose it. This domain is 
particularly associated with agricultural deities, 
gods of healing or endurance, and gods of home and 
community. Religious orders of healing also seek 
the magic of this domain. 


LEVEL 3: DISCIPLE OF LIFE 

When a spell you cast with a spell slot restores Hit 
Points to a creature, that creature regains addi- 
tional Hit Points on the turn you cast the spell. The 
additional Hit Points equal 2 plus the spell slot’s 
level. 


LEVEL 3: LIFE DOMAIN SPELLS 

Your connection to this divine domain ensures you 
always have certain spells ready. When you reach 
a Cleric level specified in the Life Domain Spells 
table, you thereafter always have the listed spells 
prepared. 


LiFe DOMAIN SPELLS 
Cleric Level Prepared Spells 
3 Aid, Bless, Cure Wounds, 
Lesser Restoration 
Mass Healing Word, Revivify 
Aura of Life, Death Ward 
9 Greater Restoration, Mass Cure Wounds 


LEVEL 3: PRESERVE LIFE 

As a Magic action, you present your Holy Symbol 
and expend a use of your Channel Divinity to evoke 
healing energy that can restore a number of Hit 
Points equal to five times your Cleric level. Choose 
Bloodied creatures within 30 feet of yourself 
(which can include you), and divide those Hit Points 
among them. This feature can restore a creature to 
no more than half its Hit Point maximum. 


" 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 4 73 
ee du eee CoD A; a * 


LEVEL 6: BLESSED HEALER 

The healing spells you cast on others heal you as 
well. Immediately after you cast a spell with a spell 
slot that restores Hit Points to one or more сгеа- 
tures other than yourself, you regain Hit Points 
equal to 2 plus the spell slot's level. 


LEVEL 17: SUPREME HEALING 

When you would normally roll one or more dice 
to restore Hit Points to a creature with a spell or 
Channel Divinity, don't roll those dice for the heal- 
ing; instead use the highest number possible for 
each die. For example, instead of restoring 2d6 Hit 
Points to a creature with a spell, you restore 12. 


[ТЕЕ DOMAIN 


SUBCLASS 


Licht DOMAIN __ 
Bring Light to Banish Darkness 
The Light Domain emphasizes the divine power to 
bring about blazing fire and revelation. Clerics who 
wield this power are enlightened souls infused with 
radiance and the power of their deities' discerning 
vision, charged with chasing away lies and burning 
away darkness. 

The Light Domain is associated with gods of 
truth, vigilance, beauty, insight, and renewal. Some 
of these gods are identified with the sun or as chari- 
oteers who guide the sun across the sky. Others are 
sentinels who pierce deception. Some are deities of 
beauty and artistry who teach that art is a vehicle 
for the soul's improvement. 


LEVEL 3: LIGHT DOMAIN SPELLS 

Your connection to this divine domain ensures you 
always have certain spells ready. When you reach 
a Cleric level specified in the Light Domain Spells 
table, you thereafter always have the listed spells 
prepared. 


LIGHT DOMAIN SPELLS 
Cleric Level Prepared Spells 


3 Burning Hands, Faerie Fire, Scorching 
Ray, See Invisibility 

5 Daylight, Fireball 
Arcane Eye, Wall of Fire 

9 Flame Strike, Scrying 


LEVEL 3: RADIANCE OF THE DAWN 

As a Magic action, you present your Holy Symbol 
and expend a use of your Channel Divinity to emit 
a flash of light in a 30-foot Emanation originating 
from yourself. Any magical Darkness—such as that 
created by the Darkness spell—in that area is dis- 
pelled. Additionally, each creature of your choice in 
that area must make a Constitution saving throw, 
taking Radiant damage equal to 2d10 plus your 
Cleric level on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one. 


LEVEL 3: WARDING FLARE 

When a creature that you can see within 30 feet 
of yourself makes an attack roll, you can take a Re- 
action to impose Disadvantage on the attack roll, 
causing light to flare before it hits or misses. 

You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You 
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest. 


= 
2 
E 
2 
g 


LEVEL б: [MFROVED WARDING FLARE 
You regain all expended uses of your Warding Flare 
when you finish a Short or Long Rest. 

In addition, whenever you use Warding Flare, you 
can give the target of the triggering attack a num- 
ber of Temporary Hit Points equal to 2d6 plus your 
Wisdom modifier. 


LEVEL 17: CORONA or LIGHT 

As a Magic action, you cause yourself to emit an 
aura of sunlight that lasts for 1 minute or until you 
dismiss it (no action required). You emit Bright 
Light in a 60-foot radius and Dim Light for an ad- 
ditional 30 feet. Your enemies in the Bright Light 
have Disadvantage on saving throws against your 
Radiance of the Dawn and any spell that deals Fire 
or Radiant damage. 

You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. 


TRICKERY DOMAIN 
Make Mischief and Challenge Authority 


The Trickery Domain offers magic of deception, il- 
lusion, and stealth. Clerics who wield this magic are 
a disruptive force in the world, puncturing pride, 
mocking tyrants, freeing captives, and flouting hol- 
low traditions. They prefer subterfuge and pranks 
to direct confrontation. 

Gods of trickery are mischief-makers and insti- 
gators who stand as a constant challenge to the 
accepted order among both gods and mortals. 
They embody the forces of change and social up- 
heaval, and they're patrons of thieves, scoundrels, 
gamblers, rebels, and liberators. Religious orders 
that operate in secret, especially those that seek to 
undermine oppressive governments or hierarchies, 
also draw on the power of the Trickery Domain. 


LEVEL 3: BLESSING OF THE TRICKSTER 

As a Magic action, you can choose yourself or a 
willing creature within 30 feet of yourself to have 
Advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. This 
blessing lasts until you finish a Long Rest or you use 
this feature again. 


LEVEL 3: INVOKE DUPLICITY 

As a Bonus Action, you can expend one use of your 
Channel Divinity to create a perfect visual illusion 
of yourself in an unoccupied space you can see 
within 30 feet of yourself. The illusion is intangible 
and doesn't occupy its space. It lasts for 1 minute, 
but it ends early if you dismiss it (no action re- 
quired) or have the Incapacitated condition. The il- 
lusion is animated and mimics your expressions and 


gestures. While it persists, you gain the folio. ing 
benefits. 

Cast Spells. You can cast spells as though you 
were in the illusion's space, but you must use your 
own senses. 

Distract. When both you and your illusion are 
within 5 feet of a creature that can see the illusion, 
you have Advantage on attack rolls against that 
creature, given how distracting the illusion is to the 
target. 

Move. As a Bonus Action, you can move the illu- 
sion up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can 
see that is within 120 feet of yourself. 


LEVEL 3: TRICKERY DOMAIN SPELLS 

Your connection to this divine domain ensures you 
always have certain spells ready. When you reach a 
Cleric level specified in the Trickery Domain Spells 
table, you thereafter always have the listed spells 
prepared. 


TRICKERY DOMAIN SPELLS 
Cleric Level Prepared Spells 


Charm Person, Disguise Self, Invisibility, 
Pass without Trace 


Hypnotic Pattern, Nondetection 
Confusion, Dimension Door 
Dominate Person, Modify Memory 


LEVEL 6: TRICKSTER’S TRANSPOSITION 
Whenever you take the Bonus Action to create or 
move the illusion of your Invoke Duplicity, you can 
teleport, swapping places with the illusion. 


LEVEL 17: IMPROVED DUPLICITY 

The illusion of your Invoke Duplicity has grown 
more powerful in the following ways. 

Shared Distraction. When you and your 
allies make attack rolls against a creature 
within 5 feet of the illusion, the attack rolls 
have Advantage. 

Healing Illusion. When the illusion 
ends, you or a creature of your choice 
within 5 feet of it regains a number of Hit 
Points equal to your Cleric level. 


WAR DOMAIN 


Inspire Valor and Smite Foes 


War has many manifestations. It can make 
heroes of ordinary people. It can be desperate and 
horrific, with acts of cruelty and cowardice eclips- 
ing instances of excellence and courage. Clerics 


Trickery Domain 


Su BCLASS 


who tap into the magic of the War Domain excel in 
battle, inspiring others to fight the good fight or of- 
fering acts of violence as prayers. 

Gods of the War Domain watch over warriors and 
reward them for their great deeds. They include 
champions of honor and chivalry as well as gods of 
destruction and pillage. Other war gods take a more 
neutral stance, promoting war in all its manifesta- 
tions and supporting warriors in any circumstance. 


LEVEL 3: GUIDED STRIKE 

When you or a creature within 30 feet of you 
misses with an attack roll, you can expend one use 
of your Channel Divinity and give that roll a +10 bo- 
nus, potentially causing it to hit. When you use this 
feature to benefit another creature's attack roll, you 
must take a Reaction to do so. 


LEVEL 3: WAR DOMAIN SPELLS 

Your connection to this divine domain ensures you 
always have certain spells ready. When you reach 
a Cleric level specified in the War Domain Spells 
table, you thereafter always have the listed spells 
prepared. 


War DOMAIN SPELLS 
Cleric Level Prepared Spells 
3 Guiding Bolt, Magic Weapon, Shield of 
Faith, Spiritual Weapon 
Crusader’s Mantle, Spirit Guardians 
Fire Shield, Freedom of Movement 
9 Hold Monster, Steel Wind Strike 


LEVEL 3: WAR PRIEST 

As a Bonus Action, you can make one attack with 

a weapon or an Unarmed Strike. You can use this 
Bonus Action a number of times equal to your Wis- 
dom modifier (minimum of once). You regain all ex- 
pended uses when you finish a Short or Long Rest. 


LEVEL 6: WAR Gop's BLESSING 

You can expend a use of your Channel Divinity to 
cast Shield of Faith or Spiritual Weapon rather than 
expending a spell slot. When you cast either spell 
in this way, the spell doesn’t require Concentration. 
Instead the spell lasts for 1 minute, but it ends early 
if you cast that spell again, have the Incapacitated 
condition, or die. 


LEVEL 17: AVATAR OF BATTLE 


You gain Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and 
Slashing damage. 


AE ERE SILT n VRS ct ct 


ey 


War Domain 


SuBcLASS 


^ 


A Nature Priest of Primal Power 


Mecca cxtat 


295 


ALEXANDERMOKHOV — — 


JORE DRUID TRAITS 
primary Ability 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Wisdom 
D8 per Druid level 


Intelligence and Wisdom 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Arcana, Animal 
Handling, Insight, Medicine, 
Nature, Perception, Religion, 
or Survival 

Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons 
Tool Proficiencies Herbalism Kit 


Armor Training Light armor and Shields 


Choose A or B: (A) Leather 
Armor, Shield, Sickle, Druidic 
Focus (Quarterstaff), Explor- 
er's Pack, Herbalism Kit, and 
9 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


Starting Equipment 


call on the forces of nature. Harnessing 
4 — the magic of animals, plants, and the four 
elements, Druids heal, transform into animals, and 
wield elemental destruction. 

Revering nature above all, individual Druids gain 
their magic from nature, a nature deity, or both, 
and they typically unite with other Druids to per- 
form rites that mark the passage of the seasons and 
other natural cycles. 

Druids are concerned with the delicate ecological 
balance that sustains plant and animal life and with 
the need for people to live in harmony with nature. 
Druids often guard sacred sites or watch over re- 
gions of unspoiled nature, but when a significant 
danger arises, Druids take a more active role as ad- 
venturers who combat the threat. 


Г) RUIDS BELONG ТО ANCIENT ORDERS THAT 
Р. 


BECOMING A DRUID... 


AS A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits in the Core Druid Traits table. 

- Gain the Druid's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Druid Features table. 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

- Gain the following traits from the Core Druid 
Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light 
armor and Shields. 

* Gain the Druid's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Druid Features table. See the multiclassing 
rules in chapter 2 to determine your available 
spell slots. 


| 
| 
| 
| 


— ——— MÀ oe 


J санагы к= ил а == васал, 


РА 
DRUID CLASS FEATURES 


As a Druid, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Druid levels. These 
features are listed in the Druid Features table. 


LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING 

You have learned to cast spells through studying the 
mystical forces of nature. See chapter 7 for the rules 
on spellcasting. The information below details how 
you use those rules with Druid spells, which appear 
on the Druid spell list later in the class’s description. 

Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice 
from the Druid spell list. Druidcraft and Produce 
Flame are recommended. 

Whenever you gain a Druid level, you can replace 
one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your 
choice from the Druid spell list. 

When you reach Druid levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another cantrip of your choice from the Druid spell 
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Druid 
Features table. 


Spell Slots. The Druid Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells. 
You regain all expended slots when you finish a 
Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To start, choose four level 1 spells from 
the Druid spell list. Animal Friendship, Cure Wounds, 
Faerie Fire, and Thunderwave are recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Druid levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Druid Features table. Whenever that 
number increases, choose additional spells from the 
Druid spell list until the number of spells on your 
list matches the number on the table. The chosen 
spells must be of a level for which you have spell 
slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Druid, your list 
of prepared spells can include six spells of levels 1 
and 2 in any combination. 

If another Druid feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don’t count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Druid spells for you. 

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre- 
pared spells, replacing any of the spells with other 
Druid spells for which you have spell slots. 

Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting 
ability for your Druid spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Druidic Focus as 
a Spellcasting Focus for your Druid spells. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


DRUID FEATURES 
ild 

Proficiency М 
Class Features 


Level Bonus 
1 42 Spellcasting, Druidic, — 
Primal Order 
2 +2 Wild Shape, 2 
Wild Companion 
3 +2 Druid Subclass 2 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 2 
5 13 Wild Resurgence 2 
6 +3 Subclass feature 3 
7 +3 Elemental Fury 3 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 3 
9 +4 — 3 
10 +4 Subclass feature 3 
1i +4 — 3 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 3 
13 +5 — 3 
14 +5 Subclass feature 3 
15 +5 Improved Elemental Fury 3 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 3 
7 +6 — 4 
18 +6 Beast Spells 4 
19 +6 Epic Boon 4 
20 +6 Archdruid 4 


LEVEL 1: DRUIDIC 

You know Druidic, the secret language of Dru- 
ids. While learning this ancient tongue, you also 
unlocked the magic of communicating with ani- 
mals; you always have the Speak with Animals spell 
prepared. 

You can use Druidic to leave hidden messages. 
You and others who know Druidic automatically 
spot such a message. Others spot the message's pres- 
ence with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investiga- 
tion) check but can't decipher it without magic. 


LEVEL 1: PRIMAL ORDER 
You have dedicated yourself to one of the following 
sacred roles of your choice. 

Magician. You know one extra cantrip from the 
Druid spell list. In addition, your mystical connec- 
tion to nature gives you a bonus to your Intelligence 
(Arcana or Nature) checks. The bonus equals your 
Wisdom modifier (minimum bonus of +1). 

Warden. Trained for battle, you gain proficiency 
with Martial weapons and training with Medium 


armor. 


PTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 
WEP ts erede o; ted { r 


Shape Cantrips 


E SERT ASA E S S NN 


Spell Slots per Spei! !.evel—_ 


Prepared 

Spells 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
2 4 @ == = == —— —— чы ш E 
2 5 З SS ж== к=з жыз шы ыш шз _ 
2 6 4 2 — — — — — — PE 
3 7 4 3 == — — 
3 9 4 3 2 — — — = .. 8 
3 10 4 3 3 — — — — — — 
3 n 43 3 1 — — — — — 
3 12 4 3 3 2 — eee 
3 14 4 3 3 3 1. = = c2 гш 
4 15 4 3 3 3 2—-—-—. 
4 16 4 3 3 ЗЮ l= m 
4 16 4 3 3 3 2 1 —— a 
4 7 4 3 3 3 2 1 d = 
4 7 43 3 3 2 1 Т — — 
4 18 413.3 3 2 T y те 
4 18 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 = 
4 19 4 3 Ss 2'* T Ттт 
4 20 4 3 3 3 3 1 T TY 4 
4 21 2053073, 23- 32271 81 
4 22 43 3.3 3 2 2 1 3] 


LEVEL 2: WILD SHAPE 

The power of nature allows you to assume the form 
of an animal. As a Bonus Action, you shape-shift 
into a Beast form that you have learned for this fea- 
ture (see “Known Forms” below). You stay in that 
form for a number of hours equal to half your Druid 
level or until you use Wild Shape again, have the In- 
capacitated condition, or die. You can also leave the 
form early as a Bonus Action. 

Number of Uses. You can use Wild Shape twice. 
You regain one expended use when you finish a 
Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 

You gain additional uses when you reach certain 
Druid levels, as shown in the Wild Shape column of 
the Druid Features table. 

Known Forms. You know four Beast forms for this 
feature, chosen from among Beast stat blocks that 
have a maximum Challenge Rating of 1/4 and that 
lack a Fly Speed (see appendix B for stat block ор- 
tions). The Rat, Riding Horse, Spider, and Wolf are 
recommended. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, 
you can replace one of your known forms with an- 
other eligible form. 


When you reach certain Druid levels, your num- 
ber of known forms and the maximum Challenge 
Rating for those forms increases, as shown in the 
Beast Shapes table. In addition, starting at level 8, 
you can adopt a form that has a Fly Speed. 

When choosing known forms, you may look in the 
Monster Manual or elsewhere for eligible Beasts if 
the Dungeon Master permits you to do so. 


BEAST SHAPES 


Druid Known Max Fly 
Level Forms CR Speed 
2 4 1/4 Мо 
4 6 1/2 Мо 
8 8 1 Yes 


Rules While Shape-Shifted. While in a form, you 
retain your personality, memories, and ability to 
speak, and the following rules apply: 


Temporary Hit Points. When you assume a Wild 
Shape form, you gain a number of Temporary Hit 
Points equal to your Druid level. 

Game Statistics. Your game statistics are replaced 
by the Beast's stat block, but you retain your crea- 
ture type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma scores; class features; 
languages; and feats. You also retain your skill 
and saving throw proficiencies and use your Pro- 
ficiency Bonus for them, in addition to gaining the 
proficiencies of the creature. If a skill or saving 
throw modifier in the Beast's stat block is higher 
than yours, use the one in the stat block. 

No Spellcasting. You can't cast spells, but shape- 
shifting doesn't break your Concentration or oth- 
erwise interfere with a spell you've already cast. 

Objects. Your ability to handle objects is deter- 
mined by the form's limbs rather than your own. 
In addition, you choose whether your equipment 
falls in your space, merges into your new form, or 
is worn by it. Worn equipment functions as nor- 
mal, but the DM decides whether it's practical for 

the new form to wear a piece of equipment based 
on the creature's size and shape. Your equipment 
doesn't change size or shape to match the new 
form, and any equipment that the new form can't 
wear must either fall to the ground or merge with 
the form. Equipment that merges with the form 
has no effect while you're in that form. 


LEVEL 2: WILD COMPANION 

You can summon a nature spirit that assumes an 

animal form to aid you. As a Magic action, you can 

expend a spell slot or a use of Wild Shape to cast the 

Find Familiar spell without Material components. 
When you cast the spell in this way, the familiar is 

Fey and disappears when you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 3: DRUID SUBCLASS 

You gain a Druid subclass of your choice. The Circle 
of the Land, Circle of the Moon, Circle of the Sea, 
and Circle of the Stars subclasses are detailed after 
this class’s description. A subclass is a specialization 
that grants you features at certain Druid levels. For 
the rest of your career, you gain each of your sub- 
class’s features that are of your Druid level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Druid 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: WILD RESURGENCE 

Once on each of your turns, if you have no uses of 
Wild Shape left, you can give yourself one use by 
expending a spell slot (no action required). 

In addition, you can expend one use of Wild Shape 
(no action required) to give yourself a level 1 spell 
slot, but you can’t do so again until you finish a 
Long Rest. 


LEVEL 7: ELEMENTAL FURY 
The might of the elements flows through you. You 
gain one of the following options of your choice. 
Potent Spellcasting. Add your Wisdom modifier to 
the damage you deal with any Druid cantrip. 
Primal Strike. Once on each of your turns when 
you hit a creature with an attack roll using a 
weapon or a Beast form's attack in Wild Shape, you 
can cause the target to take an extra 1d8 Cold, Fire, 


Lightning, or Thunder damage (choose when you 
hit). 


LEVEL 15: IMPROVED ELEMENTAL FURY 
The option you chose for Elemental Fury grows 
more powerful, as detailed below. 

Potent Spellcasting. When you cast a Druid can- 
trip with a range of 10 feet or greater, the spell's 
range increases by 300 feet. 

Primal Strike. The extra damage of your Primal 
Strike increases to 2d8. 


LEVEL 18: BEAST SPELLS 

While using Wild Shape, you can cast spells in 
Beast form, except for any spell that has a Material 
component with a cost specified or that consumes 
its Material component. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES . 8] 


T WT ш a 


A DRUID CHANNELS THE POWER OF 


NATURE THROUGH THEIR MAGIC. 


er 


LEVEL 20: ARCHDRUID 
The vitality of nature constantly blooms within 
you, granting you the following benefits. 

Evergreen Wild Shape. Whenever you roll Initia- 
tive and have no uses of Wild Shape left, you regain 
one expended use of it. 

Nature Magician. You can convert uses of Wild 
Shape into a spell slot (no action required). Choose 
a number of your unexpended uses of Wild Shape 
and convert them into a single spell slot, with each 
use contributing 2 spell levels. For example, if you 
convert two uses of Wild Shape, you produce a level 
4 spell slot. Once you use this benefit, you can't do 
so again until you finish a Long Rest. 

Longevity. The primal magic that you wield causes 
you to age more slowly. For every ten years that 
pass, your body ages only one year. 


DRUID SPELL LIST | 


This section presents the Druid spell list. The spells 


are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, 
and each spell's school of magic is listed. In the Spe- 
cial column, C means the spell requires Concentra- 
tion, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it requires a 
specific Material component. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


CANTRIPS (LEVEL o DRUID SPELLS) 


Spell 
Druidcraft 
Elementalism 
Guidance 
Mending 
Message 
Poison Spray 
Produce Flame 
Resistance 
Shillelagh 
Spare the Dying 
Starry Wisp 
Thorn Whip 
Thunderclap 


LEVEL 1 DRUID SPELLS 


Spell 


Animal Friendship 


Charm Person 


Create or Destroy Water 


Cure Wounds 


School 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Necromancy 
Conjuration 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 
Necromancy 
Evocation 
Transmutation 


Evocation 


School 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Transmutation 


Abjuration 


Special 


С 


Special 


Spell 
Detect Magic 


Detect Poison and Disease 


Entangle 
Faerie Fire 
Fog Cloud 
Goodberry 
Healing Word 
Ice Knife 
Jump 
Longstrider 


Protection from Evil and 
Good 


Purify Food and Drink 
Speak with Animals 
Thunderwave 


LEVEL 2 DRUID SPELLS 


Spell 

Aid 

Animal Messenger 
Augury 

Barkskin 

Beast Sense 
Continual Flame 
Darkvision 
Enhance Ability 
Enlarge/Reduce 
Find Traps 

Flame Blade 
Flaming Sphere 
Gust of Wind 
Heat Metal 

Hold Person 
Lesser Restoration 
Locate Animals or Plants 
Locate Object 
Moonbeam 

Pass without Trace 
Protection from Poison 
Spike Growth 
Summon Beast 


School 
Divination 
Divination 
Conjuration 
Evocation 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Abjuration 


Transmutation 
Divination 


Evocation 


School 
Abjuration 
Enchantment 
Divination 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Evocation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Evocation 
Evocation 
Evocation 
Transmutation 
Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Divination 
Divination 
Evocation 
Abjuration 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 


Conjuration 


z . 3 — 


Special 
GER 
C,R 

С 
С 
© 


Special 


C, M 


LEVEL 3 DRUID SPELLS 


Spell 

Aura of Vitality 
Call Lightning 
Conjure Animals 
Daylight 

Dispel Magic 
Elemental Weapon 
Feign Death 

Meld into Stone 
Plant Growth 
Protection from Energy 
Revivify 

Sleet Storm 

Speak with Plants 
Summon Fey 
Water Breathing 
Water Walk 

Wind Wall 


LeveL 4 DRUID SPELLS 
Spell 
Blight 
Charm Monster 
Confusion 
Conjure Minor Elementals 
Conjure Woodland Beings 
Control Water 
Divination 
Dominate Beast 
Fire Shield 
Fount of Moonlight 
Freedom of Movement 
Giant Insect 
Grasping Vine 
Hallucinatory Terrain 
Ice Storm 
Locate Creature 
Polymorph 
Stone Shape 
Stoneskin 
Summon Elemental 
Wall of Fire 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


School 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 
Evocation 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 


Evocation 


School 
Necromancy 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Evocation 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 
Illusion 
Evocation 
Divination 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 
Evocation 


Special 
c 


Special 


83 


LEVEL 5 DRUID SPELLS 
Spell 

Antilife Shell 

Awaken 

Commune with Nature 


Cone of Cold 
Conjure Elemental 
Contagion 

Geas 

Greater Restoration 
Insect Plague 
Mass Cure Wounds 
Planar Binding 
Reincarnate 
Scrying 

Tree Stride 

Wall of Stone 


LeveL 6 DRUID SPELLS 
Spell 

Conjure Fey 

Find the Path 

Flesh to Stone 

Heal 

Heroes’ Feast 

Move Earth 
Sunbeam 

Transport via Plants 
Wall of Thorns 
Wind Walk 


LeveL 7 DRUuID SPELLS 
Spell 

Fire Storm 

Mirage Arcane 

Plane Shift 

Regenerate 

Reverse Gravity 

Symbol 


LeveL 8 DnuiD SPELLS 
Spell 

Animal Shapes 
Antipathy/Sympathy 
Befuddlement 

Control Weather 


School Special 
Abjuration С 
Transmutation M 
Divination R 
Evocation = 
Conjuration C 
Necromancy — 
Enchantment — 
Abjuration M 
Conjuration C 
Abjuration — 
Abjuration M 
Necromancy M 
Divination C, M 
Conjuration € 
Evocation C 
School Special 
Conjuration C 
Divination C, M 
Transmutation ( 
Abjuration — 


Conjuration M 
Transmutation C 
Evocation С 
Conjuration — 
Conjuration С 
Transmutation — 


School Special 
Evocation — 
Illusion — 
Conjuration M 
Transmutation — 


Transmutation C 


Abjuration M 
School Special 
Transmutation — 
Enchantment — 
Enchantment — 


Transmutation C 


CHAPTER 5 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


Spell School Special 
Earthquake Transmutation Є 
Incendiary Cloud Conjuration C 
Sunburst Evocation == 
Tsunami Conjuration C 
LEvEL 9 DRUID SPELLS 

Spell School Special 
Foresight Divination — 
Shapechange Transmutation С, M 
Storm of Vengeance Conjuration C 
True Resurrection Necromancy M 


DRUID SUBCLASSES 
A Druid subclass is a specialization that grants you 
features at certain Druid levels, as specified in the 
subclass. Druids form loose associations, which they 
call circles. This section presents the Circle of the 
Land, Circle of the Moon, Circle of the Sea, and Cir- 
cle of the Stars subclasses. 


CIRCLE OF THE LAND 

Celebrate Connection to the Natural World 

The Circle of the Land comprises mystics and sages 
who safeguard ancient knowledge and rites. These 
Druids meet within sacred circles of trees or stand- 
ing stones to whisper primal secrets in Druidic. The 
circle's wisest members preside as the chief priests 
of their communities. 


LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OF THE LAND SPELLS 
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, choose one type 
of land: arid, polar, temperate, or tropical. Consult 
the table below that corresponds to the chosen type; 
you have the spells listed for your Druid level and 
lower prepared. 


ARID LAND 
Druid Level Circle Spells 
3 Blur, Burning Hands, Fire Bolt 
5 Fireball 
7 Blight 
9 Wall of Stone 
POLAR LAND 
Druid Level Circle Spells 
3 Fog Cloud, Hold Person, Ray of Frost 
5 Sleet Storm 
7 Ice Storm 
9 Cone of Cold 


TEMPERATE LAND 
Druid Level Circle Spells 


3 Misty Step, Shocking Grasp, Sleep _ 
5 Lightning Bolt 

7 Freedom of Movement 

9 Tree Stride 


TROPICAL LAND 
Druid Level Circle Spells 
3 Acid Splash, Ray of Sickness, Web 
5 Stinking Cloud 
7 Polymorph 
9 


Insect Plague 


LEVEL 3: LAND'S AID 
As a Magic action, you can expend a use of your 
Wild Shape and choose a point within 60 feet of 
yourself. Vitality-giving flowers and life-draining 
thorns appear for a moment in a 10-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on that point. Each creature of 
your choice in the Sphere must make a Constitution 
saving throw against your spell save DC, taking 2d6 
Necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. One creature of your 
choice in that area regains 2d6 Hit Points. 

The damage and healing increase by 1d6 when you 
reach Druid levels 10 (5d6) and 14 (4d6). 


LEVEL 6: NATURAL RECOVERY 

You can cast one of the level 1* spells that you have 
prepared from your Circle Spells feature without 
expending a spell slot, and you must finish a Long 
Rest before you do so again. 

In addition, when you finish a Short Rest, you can 
choose expended spell slots to recover. The spell 
slots can have a combined level that is equal to or 
less than half your Druid level (round up), and none 
of them can be level 6+. For example, if you're a level 
6 Druid, you can recover up to three levels' worth 
of spell slots. You can recover a level 3 spell slot, a 
level 2 and a level 1 spell slot, or three level 1 spell 
slots. Once you recover spell slots with this feature, 
you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 10: NATURE'S WARD 

You are immune to the Poisoned condition, and you 
have Resistance to a damage type associated with 
your current land choice in the Circle Spells feature, 
as shown in the Nature's Ward table. 


NATURE'S WARD 

Land Type Resistance Land Type Resistance 
Arid Fire Temperate Lightning 
Polar Cold Tropical Poison 


Circe oF тне Lano О. 
SuBcLAss 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
! 


CincLE ОР THE MOON 
SuBciass 


LEVEL 14: NATURE’S SANCTUARY 
As a Magic action, you can expend a use of your 
Wild Shape and cause spectral trees and vines to 
appear in a 15-foot Cube on the ground within 120 
feet of yourself. They last there for 1 minute or until 
you have the Incapacitated condition or die. You 
and your allies have Half Cover while in that area, 
and your allies gain the current Resistance of your 
Nature’s Ward while there. 

As a Bonus Action, you can move the Cube up to 
60 feet to ground within 120 feet of yourself. 


CIRCLE OF THE MOON. 
Adopt Animal Forms to Guard the Wilds 
Druids of the Circle of the Moon draw on lunar 
magic to transform themselves. Their order gathers 
under the moon to share news and perform rituals. 
Changeable as the moon, a Druid of this circle 
might prowl as a great cat one night, soar over the 
treetops as an eagle the next day, and then crash 
through undergrowth as a bear to drive off a tres- 
passing monster. The wild is in the Druid's blood. 


LEVEL 3: CIRCLE FORMS 

You can channel lunar magic when you assume a 

Wild Shape form, granting you the benefits below. 
Challenge Rating. The maximum Challenge Rating 

for the form equals your Druid level divided by 3 


(round down). 
Armor Class. Until you leave the form, your AC 
equals 13 plus your Wisdom modifier if that total is 


higher than the Beast’s AC. 
Temporary Hit Points. You gain a number of Tem- 
porary Hit Points equal to three times your Druid 


level. 

LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OF THE MOON SPELLS 
When you reach a Druid level specified in the Circle 
of the Moon Spells table, you thereafter always have 


the listed spells prepared. 
In addition, you can cast the spells from this fea- 
ture while you're in a Wild Shape form. 


CIRCLE OF THE MOON SPELLS 
Druid Level Prepared Spells 
Cure Wounds, Moonbeam, Starry Wisp 
Conjure Animals 
Fount of Moonlight 
Mass Cure Wounds 


on tn WwW 


wee Жаш amm 


A DRUID IN WOLF FORM 


HOWLS AT THE MOON. 


LEVEL 6: IMPROVED CIRCLE FORMS 
While in a Wild Shape form, you gain the following 
benefits. 

Lunar Radiance. Each of your attacks in a Wild 
Shape form can deal its normal damage type or Ra- 
diant damage. You make this choice each time you 
hit with those attacks. 

Increased Toughness. You can add your Wisdom 
modifier to your Constitution saving throws. 


LEVEL 10: MOONLIGHT STEP 

You magically transport yourself, reappearing amid 
a burst of moonlight. As a Bonus Action, you tele- 
port up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can 
see, and you have Advantage on the next attack roll 
you make before the end of this turn. 

You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. You can also regain uses by expending 
a level 2+ spell slot for each use you want to restore 
(no action required). 


LEVEL 14: LUNAR FORM 
The power of the moon suffuses you, granting you 
the following benefits. 

Improved Lunar Radiance. Once per turn, you can 
deal an extra 2d10 Radiant damage to a target you 
hit with a Wild Shape form's attack. 

Shared Moonlight. Whenever you use Moonlight 
Step, you can also teleport one willing creature. 
That creature must be within 10 feet of you, and 
you teleport it to an unoccupied space you can see 
within 10 feet of your destination space. 


CIRCLE OF THE SEA 


Become One with Tides and Storms 


Druids of the Circle of the Sea draw on the tem- 
pestuous forces of oceans and storms. Some view 
themselves as embodiments of nature's wrath, seek- 
ing vengeance against those who despoil nature. 
Others seek mystical unity with nature by attuning 
themselves to the ebb and flow of the tides, follow- 
ing the rush of currents and waves and listening to 
the inscrutable whispers and roars of the winds. 


LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OF THE SEA SPELLS 

When you reach a Druid level specified in the Circle 
of the Sea Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared. 


CIRCLE OF THE SEA SPELLS 
Druid Level Prepared Spells 
3 Fog Cloud, Gust of Wind, Ray of Frost, 
Shatter, Thunderwave 
Lightning Bolt, Water Breathing 
Control Water, Ice Storm 
Conjure Elemental, Hold Monster 


LEVEL 3: WRATH OF THE SEA 

As a Bonus Action, you can expend a use of your 
Wild Shape to manifest a 5-foot Emanation that 
takes the form of ocean spray that surrounds you 
for 10 minutes. It ends early if you dismiss it (no 
action required), manifest it again, or have the Inca- 
pacitated condition. 

When you manifest the Emanation and as a Bonus 
Action on your subsequent turns, you can choose 
another creature you can see in the Emanation. The 
target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw 
against your spell save DC or take Cold damage and, 
if the creature is Large or smaller, be pushed up to 
15 feet away from you. To determine this damage, 
roll a number of d6s equal to your Wisdom modifier 
(minimum of one die). 


LEVEL 6: AQUATIC AFFINITY 


The size of the Emanation created by your Wrath of 
the Sea increases to 10 feet. 


In addition, you gain a Swim Speed equal to your 
Speed. 


LEVEL 10: STORMBORN 
Your Wrath of the Sea confers two more benefits 
while active, as detailed below. 
Flight. You gain a Fly Speed equal to your Speed. 
Resistance. You have Resistance to Cold, Light- 
ning, and Thunder damage. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


87 


CIRCLE OF THE SEA 
SuBCLASS 8 


LEVEL 14: OCEANIC GIFT 
Instead of manifesting the Emanation of Wrath of 
the Sea around yourself, you can manifest it around 
one willing creature within 60 feet of yourself. That 
creature gains all the benefits of the Emanation and 
uses your spell save DC and Wisdom modifier for it. 
In addition, you can manifest the Emanation 
around both the other creature and yourself if you 
expend two uses of your Wild Shape instead of one 


when manifesting it. 


CIRCLE OF THE STARS 
Harness Secrets Hidden in Constellations 

The Circle of the Stars has tracked heavenly pat- 
terns since time immemorial, discovering secrets 
hidden amid the constellations. By understanding 
these secrets, the Druids of this circle seek to har- 
ness the powers of the cosmos. 


LEVEL 3: STAR MAP 

You've created a star chart as part of your heavenly 
studies. It is a Tiny object, and you can use it as а 
Spellcasting Focus for your Druid spells. You deter- 
mine its form by rolling on the Star Map table or by 
choosing one. 

While holding the map, you have the Guidance and 
Guiding Bolt spells prepared, and you can cast Guid- 
ing Bolt without expending a spell slot. You can cast 
it in that way a number of times equal to your Wis- 
dom modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all 
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 

If you lose the map, you can perform а 1-Һоиг 
ceremony to magically create a replacement. This 
ceremony can be performed during a Short or Long 
Rest, and it destroys the previous map. 


STAR МАР 
1d6 Map Form 
1 Ascroll bearing depictions of constellations 
A stone tablet with fine holes drilled through it 
An owlbear hide tooled with stellar symbols 
A collection of maps bound in an ebony cover 


А crystal engraved with starry patterns 


OV Кл 4A чу ку 


A glass disk etched with constellations 


LEVEL 3: STARRY FORM 

As a Bonus Action, you can expend a use of your 
Wild Shape feature to take on a starry form rather 
than shape-shifting. 

While in your starry form, you retain your game 
statistics, but your body becomes luminous, your 
joints glimmer like stars, and glowing lines connect 
them as оп a star chart. This form sheds Bright 
Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an addi- 
tional 10 feet. The form lasts for 10 minutes. It ends 


early if you dismiss it (no action required), have the E m 
Incapacitated condition, or use this feature again. 

Whenever you assume your starry form, choose 
which of the following constellations glimmers on 
your body; your choice gives you certain benefits 
while in the form. 

Archer. A constellation of an archer appears on 
you. When you activate this form and as a Bonus 
Action on your subsequent turns while it lasts, you 
can make a ranged spell attack, hurling a luminous 
arrow that targets one creature within 60 feet of 
yourself. On a hit, the attack deals Radiant damage 
equal to 1d8 plus your Wisdom modifier. 

Chalice. A constellation of a life-giving goblet 
appears on you. Whenever you cast a spell using 
a spell slot that restores Hit Points to a creature, 
you or another creature within 30 feet of you can 
regain Hit Points equal to 1d8 plus your Wisdom 
modifier. 

Dragon. A constellation of a wise dragon ap- 
pears on you. When you make an Intelligence or a 
Wisdom check or a Constitution saving throw to 
maintain Concentration, you can treat a roll of 9 or 
lower on the d20 as a 10. 


LEVEL 6: COSMIC OMEN 

Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can consult 
your Star Map for omens and roll a die. Until you 
finish your next Long Rest, you gain access to a spe- 
cial Reaction based on whether you rolled an even 
or an odd number on the die: 


Weal (Even). Whenever a creature you can see 
within 30 feet of you is about to make a D20 Test, 
you can take a Reaction to roll 1d6 and add the 
number rolled to the total. 

Woe (Odd). Whenever a creature you can see 
within 30 feet of you is about to make a D20 Test, 
you can take a Reaction to roll 1d6 and subtract 
the number rolled from the total. 


You can use this Reaction a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. 


LEVEL 10: TWINKLING CONSTELLATIONS 
The constellations of your Starry Form improve. 
The 1d8 of the Archer and the Chalice becomes 2d8, 
and while the Dragon is active, you have a Fly Speed 
of 20 feet and can hover. 

Moreover, at the start of each of your turns while 
in your Starry Form, you can change which constel- 
lation glimmers on your body. 


: 
| 
| 
| 
| 


LEVEL 14: FULL OF STARS 
While in your Starry Form, you become partially 


incorporeal, giving you Resistance to Bludgeoning, 
Piercing, and Slashing damage. 


CIRCLE ОЕ THE STARS 
SuBCLASS 


pet — 


BROSA PR tl 


A Master of All Arms and Armor а 


NESTOR OSSANDON LEAL 


СОВЕ FIGHTER TRAITS 
Primary Ability 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Strength or Dexterity 
D10 per Fighter level 


Strength and Constitution 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Acrobatics, Animal 
Handling, Athletics, History, 
Insight, Intimidation, Persua- 
sion, Perception, or Survival 
Simple and Martial weapons 
Light, Medium, and Heavy 
armor and Shields 

Choose A, B, or C: (A) Chain 
Mail, Greatsword, Flail, 

8 Javelins, Dungeoneer’s 
Pack, and 4 GP; (B) Studded 
Leather Armor, Scimitar, 
Shortsword, Longbow, 20 Ar- 
rows, Quiver, Dungeoneer's 
Pack, and 11 GP; or (C) 

155 GP 


Weapon Proficiencies 


Armor Training 


Starting Equipment 


Tr IGHTERS RULE MANY BATTLEFIELDS. 
| =| Questing knights, royal champions, elite sol- 
j 1 diers, and hardened mercenaries—as Fighters, 
they all share an unparalleled prowess with weap- 
ons and armor. And they are well acquainted with 
death, both meting it out and defying it. 

Fighters master various weapon techniques, and 
a well-equipped Fighter always has the right tool at 
hand for any combat situation. Likewise, a Fighter is 
adept with every form of armor. Beyond that basic 
degree of familiarity, each Fighter specializes in cer- 
tain styles of combat. Some concentrate on archery, 
some on fighting with two weapons at once, and 
some on augmenting their martial skills with magic. 
This combination of broad ability and extensive spe- 
cialization makes Fighters superior combatants. 


BECOMING A FIGHTER ... 


AS A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits in the Core Fighter Traits table. 

+ Gain the Fighter's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Fighter Features table. 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

- Gain the following traits from the Core Fighter 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar- 
tial weapons, and training with Light and Medium 
armor and Shields. 

+ Gain the Fighter's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Fighter Features table. 


8 
| 


H 
LT DSRS OE aan = —— 


FIGHTER CLASS FEATURES 


As a Fighter, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Fighter levels. These 
features are listed on the Fighter Features table. 


LEVEL 1: FIGHTING STYLE 
You have honed your martial prowess and gain a 


Fighting Style feat of your choice (see chapter 5). 
Defense is recommended. 


Whenever you gain a Fighter level, you can re- 


place the feat you chose with a different Fighting 
Style feat. 


LEVEL 1: SECOND WIND 

You have a limited well of physical and mental 
stamina that you can draw on. As a Bonus Action, 
you can use it to regain Hit Points equal to 1d10 plus 
your Fighter level. 


You can use this feature twice. You regain one 
expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you 


regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest. 


When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain 
more uses of this feature, as shown in the Second 
Wind column of the Fighter Features table. 


LEVEL 1: WEAPON MASTERY 

Your training with weapons allows you to use the 
mastery properties of three kinds of Simple or Mar- 
tial weapons of your choice. Whenever you finish 

a Long Rest, you can practice weapon drills and 
change one of those weapon choices. 

When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain 
the ability to use the mastery properties of more 
kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon Mastery 
column of the Fighter Features table. 


LEVEL 2: ACTION SURGE 

You can push yourself beyond your normal limits 
for a moment. On your turn, you can take one addi- 
tional action, except the Magic action. 

Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. Starting at 
level 17, you can use it twice before a rest but only 
once on a turn. 


LEVEL 2: TACTICAL MIND 

You have a mind for tactics on and off the battle- 
field. When you fail an ability check, you can ex- 
pend a use of your Second Wind to push yourself 
toward success. Rather than regaining Hit Points, 
you roll 1d10 and add the number rolled to the abil- 
ity check, potentially turning it into a success. If 
the check still fails, this use of Second Wind isn't 
expended. 


91 


FIGHTER FEATURES Second Weapon 
Proficiency Wind Mastery 
Level Bonus Class Features 
1 +2 Fighting Style, Second Wind, Weapon Mastery 2 3 
2 +2 Action Surge (one use), Tactical Mind 2 3 
3 +2 Fighter Subclass 2 3 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 4 
5 +3 Extra Attack, Tactical Shift 3 4 
6 +3 Ability Score Improvement 3 4 
7 +3 Subclass feature 3 4 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 3 4 
9 +4 Indomitable (one use), Tactical Master 3 4 
10 +4 Subclass feature 4 5 
n +4 Two Extra Attacks 4 5 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 4 5 
13 +5 Indomitable (two uses), Studied Attacks 4 5 
14 +5 Ability Score Improvement 4 5 
15 +5 Subclass feature 4 5 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 4 6 
17 +6 Action Surge (two uses), Indomitable (three uses) 4 6 
18 +6 Subclass feature 4 6 
19 +6 Epic Boon 4 6 
20 +6 Three Extra Attacks 4 6 


LEVEL 3: FIGHTER SUBCLASS 

You gain a Fighter subclass of your choice. The 
Battle Master, Champion, Eldritch Knight, and Psi 
Warrior subclasses are detailed after this class's de- 
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Fighter levels. For the rest 
of your career, you gain each of your subclass’s fea- 
tures that are of your Fighter level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Fighter 
levels 6, 8, 12, 14, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK 
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn. 


LEVEL 5: TACTICAL SHIFT 

Whenever you activate your Second Wind with a 
Bonus Action, you can move up to half your Speed 
without provoking Opportunity Attacks. 


LEVEL 9: INDOMITABLE 

If you fail a saving throw, you can reroll it with a 
bonus equal to your Fighter level. You must use the 
new roll, and you can't use this feature again until 
you finish a Long Rest. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


You can use this feature twice before a Long Rest 
starting at level 13 and three times before a Long 
Rest starting at level 17. 


LEVEL 9: TACTICAL MASTER 

When you attack with a weapon whose mastery 
property you can use, you can replace that prop- 
erty with the Push, Sap, or Slow property for that 
attack. 


LEVEL 11: Two EXTRA ATTACKS 
You can attack three times instead of once when- 
ever you take the Attack action on your turn. 


LEVEL 13: STUDIED ATTACKS 

You study your opponents and learn from each at- 
tack you make. If you make an attack roll against 

a creature and miss, you have Advantage on your 
next attack roll against that creature before the end 


of your next turn. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Combat Prowess is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: THREE EXTRA ATTACKS 
You can attack four times instead of once whenever 
you take the Attack action on your turn. 


FIGHTER SUBCLASSES 


A Fighter subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain levels, as specified in the 
subclass. This section presents the Battle Mas- 
ter, Champion, Eldritch Knight, and Psi Warrior 
subclasses. 


BATTLE MASTER — —- 
Master Sophisticated Battle Maneuvers 


Battle Masters are students of the art of battle, 
learning martial techniques passed down through 
generations. The most accomplished Battle Masters 
are well-rounded figures who combine their care- 
fully honed combat skills with academic study in 
the fields of history, theory, and the arts. 


LEVEL 3: COMBAT SUPERIORITY 

Your experience on the battlefield has refined your 
fighting techniques. You learn maneuvers that are 
fueled by special dice called Superiority Dice. 


A FiGHTER STANDS BETWEEN AN 


ALLY AND THE ONSLAUGHT OF A 
BLACK DRAGON. 


Maneuvers. You learn three maneuvers of your 
choice from the "Maneuver Options" section later 
in this subclass's description. Many maneuvers en- 
hance an attack in some way. You can use only one 
maneuver per attack. 

You learn two additional maneuvers of your 
choice when you reach Fighter levels 7, 10, and 15. 
Each time you learn new maneuvers, you can also 
replace one maneuver you know with a different 
one. 

Superiority Dice. You have four Superiority Dice, 
which are d8s. A Superiority Die is expended when 
you use it. You regain all expended Superiority Dice 
when you finish a Short or Long Rest. 

You gain an additional Superiority Die when you 
reach Fighter levels 7 (five dice total) and 15 (six 
dice total). 

Saving Throws. If a maneuver requires a saving 
throw, the DC equals 8 plus your Strength or Dex- 
terity modifier (your choice) and Proficiency Bonus. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 93 


BarrLE Master 
SUBCLASS ` 


LEVEL 3: STUDENT OF WAR 

You gain proficiency with one type of Artisan's 
Tools of your choice, and you gain proficiency in 
one skill of your choice from the skills available to 


Fighters at level 1. 


LEVEL 7: KNOW YOUR ENEMY 

As a Bonus Action, you can discern certain 
strengths and weaknesses of a creature you can see 
within 30 feet of yourself; you know whether that 
creature has any Immunities, Resistances, or Vul- 
nerabilities, and if the creature has any, you know 


what they are. 
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 


until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore a 
use of the feature by expending one Superiority Die 
(no action required). 


LEVEL 10: IMPROVED COMBAT SUPERIORITY 
Your Superiority Die becomes a d10. 


LEVEL 15: RELENTLESS 
Once per turn, when you use a maneuver, you can 
roll 1d8 and use the number rolled instead of ex- 


pending a Superiority Die. 


LEVEL 18: ULTIMATE COMBAT SUPERIORITY 
Your Superiority Die becomes a d12. 


MANEUVER OPTIONS 
The maneuvers are presented here in alphabetical 
order. 

Ambush. When you make a Dexterity (Stealth) 
check or an Initiative roll, you can expend one 
Superiority Die and add the die to the roll, unless 
you have the Incapacitated condition. 

Bait and Switch. When you're within 5 feet of a 
creature on your turn, you can expend one Supe- 
riority Die and switch places with that creature, 
provided you spend at least 5 feet of movement and 
the creature is willing and doesn't have the Inca- 
pacitated condition. This movement doesn't pro- 
voke Opportunity Attacks. 

Roll the Superiority Die. Until the start of your 
next turn, you or the other creature (your choice) 
gains a bonus to AC equal to the number rolled. 

Commander's Strike. When you take the Attack 
action on your turn, you can replace one of your 
attacks to direct one of your companions to strike. 
When you do so, choose a willing creature who can 
see or hear you and expend one Superiority Die. 
That creature can immediately use its Reaction to 
make one attack with a weapon or an Unarmed 
Strike, adding the Superiority Die to the attack's 
damage roll on a hit. 


Commanding Presence. When you make a Cha- 
risma (Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion) 
check, you can expend one Superiority Die and add 
that die to the roll. 

Disarming Attack. When you hit a creature with 
an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die 
to attempt to disarm the target. Add the Superiority 
Die roll to the attack's damage roll. The target must 
succeed on a Strength saving throw or drop one ob- 
ject of your choice that it's holding, with the object 
landing in its space. 

Distracting Strike. When you hit a creature with 
an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die 
to distract the target. Add the Superiority Die roll 
to the attack's damage roll. The next attack roll 
against the target by an attacker other than you has 
Advantage if the attack is made before the start of 
your next turn. 

Evasive Footwork. As a Bonus Action, you can 
expend one Superiority Die and take the Disengage 
action. You also roll the die and add the number 
rolled to your AC until the start of your next turn. 

Feinting Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can ex- 
pend one Superiority Die to feint, choosing one 
creature within 5 feet of yourself as your target. 
You have Advantage on your next attack roll 
against that target this turn. If that attack hits, add 
the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll. 

Goading Attack. When you hit a creature with an 
attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die to 
attempt to goad the target into attacking you. Add 
the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll. The 
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or 
have Disadvantage on attack rolls against targets 
other than you until the end of your next turn. 

Lunging Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can ex- 
pend one Superiority Die and take the Dash action. 
If you move at least 5 feet in a straight line imme- 
diately before hitting with a melee attack as part 
of the Attack action on this turn, you can add the 
Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll. 

Maneuvering Attack. When you hit a creature 
with an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority 
Die to maneuver one of your comrades into another 
position. Add the Superiority Die roll to the attack's 
damage roll, and choose a willing creature who can 
see or hear you. That creature can use its Reaction 
to move up to half its Speed without provoking an 
Opportunity Attack from the target of your attack. 


Menacing Attack. When you hit a creature with 
an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die 
to attempt to frighten the target. Add the Supe- 
riority Die to the attack's damage roll. The target 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have 
the Frightened condition until the end of your next 
turn. 


Parry. When another creature damages you with 
a melee attack roll, you can take a Reaction and ex- 
pend one Superiority Die to reduce the damage by 
the number you roll on your Superiority Die plus 
your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice). 

Precision Attack. When you miss with an attack 
roll, you can expend one Superiority Die, roll that 
die, and add it to the attack roll, potentially causing 
the attack to hit. 


Pushing Attack. When you hit a creature with an 
attack roll using a weapon or an Unarmed Strike, 
you can expend one Superiority Die to attempt to 
drive the target back. Add the Superiority Die to 
the attack's damage roll. If the target is Large or 
smaller, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw 
or be pushed up to 15 feet directly away from you. 

Rally. As a Bonus Action, you can expend one Su- 
periority Die to bolster the resolve of a companion. 
Choose an ally of yours within 30 feet of yourself 
who can see or hear you. That creature gains Tem- 
porary Hit Points equal to the Superiority Die roll 
plus half your Fighter level (round down). 

Riposte. When a creature misses you with a melee 
attack roll, you can take a Reaction and expend one 
Superiority Die to make a melee attack roll with a 
weapon or an Unarmed Strike against the creature. 
If you hit, add the Superiority Die to the attack's 
damage. 

Sweeping Attack. When you hit a creature with 
a melee attack roll using a weapon or an Unarmed 
Strike, you can expend one Superiority Die to at- 
tempt to damage another creature. Choose another 
creature within 5 feet of the original target and 
within your reach. If the original attack roll would 
hit the second creature, it takes damage equal to the 
number you roll on your Superiority Die. The dam- 
age is of the same type dealt by the original attack. 

Tactical Assessment. When you make an Intelli- 
gence (History or Investigation) check or a Wisdom 
(Insight) check, you can expend one Superiority Die 
and add that die to the ability check. 

Trip Attack. When you hit a creature with an 
attack roll using a weapon or an Unarmed Strike, 
you can expend one Superiority Die and add the die 
to the attack's damage roll. If the target is Large or 
smaller, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw 
or have the Prone condition. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


95 


AST мб 


~ CHAMPION 


SuBCLASS 


CHAMPION .  — | 
Pursue Physical Excellence in Combat 
A Champion focuses on the development of martial 
prowess in a relentless pursuit of victory. Champi- 
ons combine rigorous training with physical excel- 
lence to deal devastating blows, withstand peril, and 
garner glory. Whether in athletic contests or bloody 
battle, Champions strive for the crown of the victor. 


— 


LEVEL 3: IMPROVED CRITICAL 
Your attack rolls with weapons and Unarmed 
Strikes can score a Critical Hit on a roll of 19 or 20 


on the d20. 


LEVEL 3: REMARKABLE ATHLETE 
Thanks to your athleticism, you have Advantage on 
Initiative rolls and Strength (Athletics) checks. 

In addition, immediately after you score a Critical 
Hit, you can move up to half your Speed without 
provoking Opportunity Attacks. 


LEVEL 7: ADDITIONAL FIGHTING STYLE 
You gain another Fighting Style feat of your choice. 


LEVEL 10: HEROIC WARRIOR 

The thrill of battle drives you toward victory. 
During combat, you can give yourself Heroic Inspi- 
ration whenever you start your turn without it. 


LEVEL 15: SUPERIOR CRITICAL 

Your attack rolls with weapons and Unarmed 
Strikes can now score a Critical Hit on a roll of 
18-20 on the d20. 


LEVEL 18: SURVIVOR 
You attain the pinnacle of resilience in battle, giving 
you these benefits. 

Defy Death. You have Advantage on Death Saving 
Throws. Moreover, when you roll 18-20 on a Death 
Saving Throw, you gain the benefit of rolling a 20 
on it. i 

Heroic Rally. At the start of each of your turns, 
you regain Hit Points equal to 5 plus your Constitu- 
tion modifier if you are Bloodied and have at least 1 
Hit Point. 


ELDRITCH KNIGHT 
Support Combat Skills with Arcane Magic 


Eldritch Knights combine the martial mastery com- 
mon to all Fighters with a careful study of magic. 
Their spells both complement and extend their com- 
bat skills, providing additional protection to shore 
up their armor and also allowing them to engage 
many foes at once with explosive magic. 


i EVEL 3: SPELLCASTING 

You have learned to cast spells. See chapter 7-for the 
rules on spellcasting. The information below details 
how you use those rules as an Eldritch Knight. 

Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice 
from the Wizard spell list (see that class’s section 
for its list). Ray of Frost and Shocking Grasp are rec- 
ommended. Whenever you gain a Fighter level, you 
can replace one of these cantrips with another can- 
trip of your choice from the Wizard spell list. 

When you reach Fighter level 10, you learn an- 
other Wizard cantrip of your choice. 

Spell Slots. The Eldritch Knight Spellcasting table 
shows how many spell slots you have to cast your 
level 1+ spells. You regain all expended slots when 
you finish a Long Rest. 


ELDRITCH KNIGHT SPELLCASTING 


Fighter ^ Spells — Spell Slots per Spell Level— 

Level Prepared 1 2 3 4 
3 3 2 = 2 en 
4 4 3 = = = 
5 4 3 — == = 
6 4 3 — = T 
7 5 4 2 E m. 
8 6 4 2 — — 
9 6 4 2 — == 
10 7 4 3 == = 
11 8 4 3 — — 
12 8 4 3 = -= 
13 9 4 3 2 — 
14 10 4 3 2 — 
15 10 4 3 2 — 
16 11 4 3 3 — 
17 11 4 3 3 — 
18 11 4 3 3 — 
19 12 4 3 3 1 
20 13 4 3 3 ] 


Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To start, choose three level 1 spells 
from the Wizard spell list. Burning Hands, Jump, and 
Shield are recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Fighter levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Eldritch Knight Spellcasting table. 
Whenever that number increases, choose additional 
spells from the Wizard spell list until the number 
of spells on your list matches the number on the 
table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which 
you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 7 


4%. 


ELORITCH KNIGHT 
Su&BcLASS 


1197 


i ur list of prepared spells can include five 
Mad Ба of levels 1 and 2 іп any combination. 
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 

gain a Fighter level, you can replace one spell on 
your list with another Wizard spell for which you 


have spell slots. | 
Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your spellcast- 


ing ability for your Wizard spells. 
Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus 
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells. 


LEVEL 3: WAR BOND 

You learn a ritual that creates a magical bond be- 
tween yourself and one weapon. You perform the 
ritual over the course of 1 hour, which can be done 
during a Short Rest. The weapon must be within 
your reach throughout the ritual, at the conclusion 
of which you touch the weapon and forge the bond. 
The bond fails if another Fighter is bonded to the 
weapon or if the weapon is a magic item to which 
someone else is attuned. 

Once you have bonded a weapon to yourself, you 
can't be disarmed of that weapon unless you have 
the Incapacitated condition. If it is on the same 
plane of existence, you can summon that weapon as 
a Bonus Action, causing it to teleport instantly to 
your hand. 

You can have up to two bonded weapons, but you 
can summon only one at a time with a Bonus Ac- 
tion. If you attempt to bond with a third weapon, 
you must break the bond with one of the other two. 


LEVEL 7: WAR МАСІС 

When you take the Attack action on your turn, you 
can replace one of the attacks with a casting of one 
of your Wizard cantrips that has a casting time of 
an action. 


LEVEL 10: ELDRITCH STRIKE 

You learn how to make your weapon strikes un- 
dercut a creature's ability to withstand your spells. 
When you hit a creature with an attack using a 
weapon, that creature has Disadvantage on the next 
saving throw it makes against a spell you cast be- 
fore the end of your next turn. 


LEVEL 15: ARCANE CHARGE 

When you use your Action Surge, you can tele- 
port up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can 
see. You can teleport before or after the additional 
action. 


LEVEL 18: IMPROVED WAR МАСІС 

When you take the Attack action on your turn, you 
can replace two of the attacks with a casting of one 
of your level 1 or level 2 Wizard spells that has a 
casting time of an action. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


Pee LESER SEA 


Pst WARRIOR _ "M" 
Augment Physical Might with Psionic Power 
Psi Warriors awaken the power of their minds to 
augment their physical might. They harness this 
psionic power to infuse their weapon strikes, lash 
out with telekinetic energy, and create barriers of 
mental force. 


LEVEL 3: PSIONIC POWER 

You harbor a wellspring of psionic energy within 
yourself. It is represented by your Psionic Energy 
Dice, which fuel powers you have from this sub- 
class. The Psi Warrior Energy Dice table shows the 
die size and number of these dice you have when 
you reach certain Fighter levels. 


en 


Pst WARRIOR ENERGY DICE 


Fighter Level Die Size Number 
3 D6 4 
5 D8 6 
9 D8 8 
11 D10 8 
13 D10 10 
17 D12 12 


Any features in this subclass that use a Psionic En- 
ergy Die use only the dice from this subclass. Some 
of your powers expend the Psionic Energy Die, as 
specified in a power's description, and you can't use 
a power if it requires you to use a die when all your 
Psionic Energy Dice are expended. 

You regain one of your expended Psionic Energy 
Dice when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain 
all of them when you finish a Long Rest. 

Protective Field. When you or another creature 
you can see within 30 feet of you takes damage, you 
can take a Reaction to expend one Psionic Energy 
Die, roll the die, and reduce the damage taken by 
the number rolled plus your Intelligence modifier 
(minimum reduction of 1), as you create a momen- 
tary shield of telekinetic force. 

Psionic Strike. You can propel your weapons with 
psionic force. Once on each of your turns, immedi- 
ately after you hit a target within 30 feet of yourself 
with an attack and deal damage to it with a weapon, 
you can expend one Psionic Energy Die, rolling it 
and dealing Force damage to the target equal to the 
number rolled plus your Intelligence modifier. 

Telekinetic Movement. You can move an object 
or a creature with your mind. As a Magic action, 
choose one target you can see within 30 feet of 
yourself; the target must be a loose object that is 
Large or smaller or one willing creature other than 
you. You transport the target up to 30 feet to an 


unoccupied space you can see. Alternatively, if the 
target is a Tiny object, you can transport it to or 
from your hand. 

Once you take this action, you can't do so again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest unless you 
expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to 
restore your use of it. 


LEVEL 7: TELEKINETIC ADEPT 
You have mastered new ways to use your telekinetic 
abilities, detailed below. 

Psi-Powered Leap. As a Bonus Action, you gain a 
Fly Speed equal to twice your Speed until the end of 
the current turn. Once you take this Bonus Action, 
you can't do so again until you finish a Short or 
Long Rest unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die 
(no action required) to restore your use of it. 

Telekinetic Thrust. When you deal damage to a 
target with your Psionic Strike, you can force the 
target to make a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus 
your Intelligence modifier and Proficiency Bonus). 
On a failed save, you can give the target the Prone 
condition or transport it up to 1O feet horizontally. 


LEVEL 10: GUARDED MIND 

You have Resistance to Psychic damage. Moreover, 
if you start your turn with the Charmed or Fright- 
ened condition, you can expend a Psionic Energy 
Die (no action required) and end every effect on 
yourself giving you those conditions. 


LEVEL 15: BULWARK OF FORCE 

You can shield yourself and others with telekinetic 
force. As a Bonus Action, you can choose creatures, 
including yourself, within 30 feet of yourself, up 

to a number of creatures equal to your Intelligence 
modifier (minimum of one creature). Each of the 
chosen creatures has Half Cover for 1 minute or un- 
til you have the Incapacitated condition. 

Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a 
Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore 
your use of it. 


LEVEL 18: TELEKINETIC MASTER 

You always have the Telekinesis spell prepared. With 
this feature, you can cast it without a spell slot or 
components, and your spellcasting ability for it is 
Intelligence. On each of your turns while you main- 
tain Concentration on it, including the turn when 
you cast it, you can make one attack with a weapon 
as a Bonus Action. 

Once you cast the spell with this feature, you can't 
do so in this way again until you finish a Long Rest 
unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action 
required) to restore your use of it. 


Psi Warrior 
Susciass 


“SS 


j^ 
t 


A Martial Artist of Supernatural Focus 


TU TT аана ааба жабады 


JOSHUA RAPHAEL 


Core MONK TRAITS 


Primary Ability Dexterity and Wisdom 

Hit Point Die D8 per Monk level 

Saving Throw Strength and Dexterity 

Proficiencies 

Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Acrobatics, Athlet- 
ics, History, Insight, Religion, 
or Stealth 


Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons and Martial 
weapons that have the Light 
property 

Tool Proficiencies Choose one type of Artisan's 
Tools or Musical Instrument 
(see chapter 6) 

Armor Training None 


Starting Equipment Choose A or B: (A) Spear, 5 
Daggers, Artisan's Tools or 
Musical Instrument cho- 
sen for the tool proficiency 
above, Explorer's Pack, and 
11 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


Pi a IU corm 


ONKS USE RIGOROUS COMBAT TRAINING 
M and mental discipline to align themselves 
il V 4A with the multiverse and focus their inter- 
nal reservoirs of power. Different Monks conceptu- 
alize this power in various ways: as breath, energy, 
life force, essence, or self, for example. Whether 
channeled as a striking display of martial prowess 
or as a subtler manifestation of defense and speed, 
this power infuses all that a Monk does. 

Monks focus their internal power to create ex- 
traordinary, even supernatural, effects. They chan- 
nel uncanny speed and strength into their attacks, 
with or without the use of weapons. In a Monk's 
hands, even the most basic weapons can become so- 
phisticated implements of combat mastery. 

Many Monks find that a structured life of ascetic 
withdrawal helps them cultivate the physical and 
mental focus they need to harness their power. 
Other Monks believe that immersing themselves in 
the vibrant confusion of life helps to fuel their de- 
termination and discipline. 

Monks generally view adventures as tests of their 
physical and mental development. They are driven 
by a desire to accomplish a greater mission than 
merely slaying monsters and plundering treasure; 
they strive to turn themselves into living weapons. 


{ 
i 


| 
ii 


| 


BECOMING A MONK ... 


AS A LEVEL] CHARACTER 


* Gain all the traits in the Core Monk Traits table. 
* Gain the Monk's level 1 features, which are listed | | 
in the Monk Features table. | 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 


+ Gain the Hit Point Die trait from the Core Monk 
Traits table. 


* Gain the Monk's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Monk Features table. 


MONK CLASS FEATURES 


As a Monk, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Monk levels. These 
features are listed in the Monk Features table. 


LEVEL l: MARTIAL ARTS 

Your practice of martial arts gives you mastery of 
combat styles that use your Unarmed Strike and 
Monk weapons, which are the following: 


- Simple Melee weapons 
- Martial Melee weapons that have the Light 
property 


You gain the following benefits while you are un- 
armed or wielding only Monk weapons and you 
aren't wearing armor or wielding a Shield. 

Bonus Unarmed Strike. You can make an Unarmed 
Strike as a Bonus Action. 

Martial Arts Die. You can roll 1d6 in place of the | 
normal damage of your Unarmed Strike or Monk | 
weapons. This die changes as you gain Monk levels, | 
as shown in the Martial Arts column of the Monk 
Features table. | 

Dexterous Attacks. You can use your Dexterity 
modifier instead of your Strength modifier for the 
attack and damage rolls of your Unarmed Strikes 
and Monk weapons. In addition, when you use the 
Grapple or Shove option of your Unarmed Strike, 
you can use your Dexterity modifier instead of your 
Strength modifier to determine the save DC. 


LEVEL 1: UNARMORED DEFENSE 

While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a 
Shield, your base Armor Class equals 10 plus your 
Dexterity and Wisdom modifiers. 


LEVEL 2: MONK’s Focus 


Your focus and martial training allow you to har- | € 
ness a well of extraordinary energy within yourself. Nieren 
This energy is represented by Focus Points. Your CARCI 


Monk level determines the number of points you 
have, as shown in the Focus Points column of the 
Monk Features table. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES TAT 


MONRIEERTUNES Martial Focus Unarmored 
dne Class Features Arts Points Movement 
а ps Martial Arts, Unarmored Defense 146 к= — 
2 42 Monk's Focus, Unarmored Movement, 1d6 2 +10 ft. 
Uncanny Metabolism 
3 +2 Deflect n Monk Subclass 1d6 3 410 ft. 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement, Slow Fall 1d6 4 410 ft. 
5 +3 Extra Attack, Stunning Strike 1d8 5 410 ft. 
6 +3 Empowered Strikes, Subclass feature 1d8 6 415 ft. 
7 43 Evasion 1d8 7 +15 ft. 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 1d8 8 +15 ft. 
9 +4 Acrobatic Movement 1d8 9 +15 ft. 
10 +4 Heightened Focus, Self-Restoration 1d8 10 +20 ft. 
n +4 Subclass feature 1d10 1 +20 ft. 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 1d10 12 +20 ft. 
13 +5 Deflect Energy 1d10 13 +20 ft. 
14 +5 Disciplined Survivor 1d10 14 +25 ft. 
15 +5 Perfect Focus 1d10 15 +25 ft. 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 1d10 16 +25 ft. 
17 +6 Subclass feature 1d12 17 +25 ft. 
18 +6 Superior Defense 1d12 18 +30 ft. 
19 +6 Epic Boon 1d12 19 +30 ft. 
20 +6 Body and Mind 1d12 20 430 ft. 


You can expend these points to enhance or fuel LEVEL 2: UNCANNY METABOLISM 


certain Monk features. You start knowing three 
such features: Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and 
Step of the Wind, each of which is detailed below. 
When you expend a Focus Point, it is unavailable 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest, at the end of 


When you roll Initiative, you can regain all ex- 
pended Focus Points. When you do so, roll your 
Martial Arts die, and regain a number of Hit Points 
equal to your Monk level plus the number rolled. 
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 


which you regain all your expended points. until you finish a Long Rest. 
Some features that use Focus Points require your 
target to make a saving throw. The save DC equals 8 
plus your Wisdom modifier and Proficiency Bonus. 
Flurry of Blows. You can expend 1 Focus Point to 
make two Unarmed Strikes as a Bonus Action. 
Patient Defense. You can take the Disengage ac- 
tion as a Bonus Action. Alternatively, you can ex- 
pend 1 Focus Point to take both the Disengage and 
the Dodge actions as a Bonus Action. 
Step of the Wind. You can take the Dash action 
as a Bonus Action. Alternatively, you can expend 1 
Focus Point to take both the Disengage and Dash 
actions as a Bonus Action, and your jump distance 
is doubled for the turn. 


LEVEL 3: DEFLECT ATTACKS 

When an attack roll hits you and its damage in- 
cludes Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage, 
you can take a Reaction to reduce the attack's total 
damage against you. The reduction equals 1d10 plus 
your Dexterity modifier and Monk level. 

If you reduce the damage to О, you can expend 1 
Focus Point to redirect some of the attack's force. 
If you do so, choose a creature you can see within 5 
feet of yourself if the attack was a melee attack or a 
creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself that 
isn't behind Total Cover if the attack was a ranged 
attack. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity 
saving throw or take damage equal to two rolls of 
your Martial Arts die plus your Dexterity modifier. 
The damage is the same type dealt by the attack. 


LEVEL 2: UNARMORED MOVEMENT 

Your speed increases by 10 feet while you aren't 
wearing armor or wielding a Shield. This bonus 
increases when you reach certain Monk levels, as 
shown on the Monk Features table. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


x sranna 


boo iL 3: Mos x SUBCLASS 

Yo:. gain a Monk subclass of your choice. The 
Warrior of Mercy, Warrior of Shadow, Warrior of 
the Elements, and Warrior of the Open Hand sub- 
classes are detailed after this class's description. A 
subclass is a specialization that grants you features 
at certain Monk levels. For the rest of your career, 
you gain each of your subclass's features that are of 
your Monk level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Monk 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 4: SLOW FALL 

You can take a Reaction when you fall to reduce any 
damage you take from the fall by an amount equal 
to five times your Monk level. 


LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK 


You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn. 


LEVEL 5: STUNNING STRIKE 

Once per turn when you hit a creature with a Monk 
weapon or an Unarmed Strike, you can expend 1 
Focus Point to attempt a stunning strike. The target 
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target has the Stunned condition until the 
start of your next turn. On a successful save, the 
target's Speed is halved until the start of your next 
turn, and the next attack roll made against the tar- 
get before then has Advantage. 


LEVEL 6: EMPOWERED STRIKES 

Whenever you deal damage with your Unarmed 
Strike, it can deal your choice of Force damage or 
its normal damage type. 


LEVEL 7: EVASION 
When you're subjected to an effect that allows you 
to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half 
damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed 
on the saving throw and only half damage if you 
fail. 

You don't benefit from this feature if you have the 
Incapacitated condition. 


LEVEL 9: ACROBATIC MOVEMENT 

While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a 
Shield, you gain the ability to move along vertical 
surfaces and across liquids on your turn without 
falling during the movement. 


LEVEL 10: HEIGHTENED Focus 


Your Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and Step of 
the Wind gain the following benefits. 

Flurry of Blows. You can expend 1 Focus Point 
to use Flurry of Blows and make three Unarmed 
Strikes with it instead of two. 


Patient Defense. When you expend a Focus Point 
to use Patient Defense, you gain a number of Tem- 


porary Hit Points equal to two rolls of your Martial 
Arts die. 


Step of the Wind. When you expend a Focus Point 
to use Step of the Wind, you can choose a willing 
creature within 5 feet of yourself that is Large or 
smaller. You move the creature with you until the 
end of your turn. The creature's movement doesn't 
provoke Opportunity Attacks. 


LEVEL 10: SELF-RESTORATION 
Through sheer force of will, you can remove one 
of the following conditions from yourself at the 


end of each of your turns: Charmed, Frightened, or 
Poisoned. 


In addition, forgoing food and drink doesn't give 
you levels of Exhaustion. 


LEVEL 13: DEFLECT ENERGY 

You can now use your Deflect Attacks feature 
against attacks that deal any damage type, not just 
Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing. 


LEVEL 14: DISCIPLINED SURVIVOR 
Your physical and mental discipline grant you profi- 
ciency in all saving throws. 

Additionally, whenever you make a saving throw 
and fail, you can expend 1 Focus Point to reroll it, 
and you must use the new roll. 


LEVEL 15: PERFECT Focus 

When you roll Initiative and don’t use Uncanny Me- 
tabolism, you regain expended Focus Points until 
you have 4 if you have 3 or fewer. 


LEVEL 18: SUPERIOR DEFENSE 

At the start of your turn, you can expend 3 Focus 
Points to bolster yourself against harm for 1 min- 
ute or until you have the Incapacitated condition. 
During that time, you have Resistance to all damage 
except Force damage. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Irresistible Offense is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: BODY AND MIND 
You have developed your body and mind to new 


heights. Your Dexterity and Wisdom scores increase 
by 4, toa maximum of 25. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES Á 103 


) 


= 
` 


. 
Я 
££ 
ГА 
£t 


WARRIOR оғ Mercy 
SUBCLASS 


MONK SUBCLASSES 
A Monk subclass is a specialization that grants you 
features at certain levels, as specified in the sub- 
class. This section presents the Warrior of Mercy, 
Warrior of Shadow, Warrior of the Elements, and 
Warrior of the Open Hand subclasses. 


WARRIOR OF MERCY 


Manipulate Forces of Life and Death 
Warriors of Mercy manipulate the life force of 
others. These Monks are wandering physicians, 

but they bring a swift end to their enemies. They 
often wear masks, presenting themselves as faceless 
bringers of life and death. 


LEVEL 3: HAND OF HARM 

Once per turn when you hit a creature with an 
Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can expend 1 
Focus Point to deal extra Necrotic damage equal to 
one roll of your Martial Arts die plus your Wisdom 


modifier. 


LEVEL 3: HAND OF HEALING 
As a Magic action, you can expend 1 Focus Point to 
touch a creature and restore a number of Hit Points 
equal to a roll of your Martial Arts die plus your 
Wisdom modifier. 

When you use your Flurry of Blows, you can re- 
place one of the Unarmed Strikes with a use of this 
feature without expending a Focus Point for the 


healing. 


LEVEL 3: IMPLEMENTS OF MERCY 
You gain proficiency in the Insight and Medicine 
skills and proficiency with the Herbalism Kit. 


LEVEL 6: PHYSICIAN’s ToucH 
Your Hand of Harm and Hand of Healing improve, 
as detailed below. 
Hand of Harm. When you use Hand of Harm on 
a creature, you can also give that creature the Poi- 
soned condition until the end of your next turn. 
Hand of Healing. When you use Hand of Healing, 
you can also end one of the following conditions on 
the creature you heal: Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, 
Poisoned, or Stunned. 


LEVEL 11: FLURRY OF HEALING AND HARM 
When you use Flurry of Blows, you can replace 
each of the Unarmed Strikes with a use of Hand of 
Healing without expending Focus Points for the 
healing. 

In addition, when you make an Unarmed Strike 
with Flurry of Blows and deal damage, you can use 
Hand of Harm with that strike without expending 
a Focus Point for Hand of Harm. You can still use 
Hand of Harm only once per turn. 


— 


You can use these benefits a total number of times 
equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). 
You regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. 


LEVEL 17: HAND OF ULTIMATE MERCY 
Your mastery of life energy opens the door to the 
ultimate mercy. As a Magic action, you can touch 
the corpse of a creature that died within the past 24 
hours and expend 5 Focus Points. The creature then 
returns to life with a number of Hit Points equal 
to 4d10 plus your Wisdom modifier. If the creature 
died with any of the following conditions, the crea- 
ture revives with the conditions removed: Blinded, 
Deafened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, and Stunned. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest. 


WARRIOR OF SHADOW 
Harness Shadow Power for Stealth and Subterfuge 


Warriors of Shadow practice stealth and subter- 
fuge, harnessing the power of the Shadowfell. They 
are at home in darkness, able to draw gloom around 
themselves to hide, leap from shadow to shadow, 
and take on a wraithlike form. 


LEVEL 3: SHADOW ARTS 
You have learned to draw on the power of the 
Shadowfell, gaining the following benefits. 

Darkness. You can expend 1 Focus Point to cast 
the Darkness spell without spell components. You 
can see within the spell's area when you cast it with 
this feature. While the spell persists, you can move 
its area of Darkness to a space within 60 feet of 
yourself at the start of each of your turns. 

Darkvision. You gain Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet. If you already have Darkvision, its range 
increases by 60 feet. 

Shadowy Figments. You know the Minor Illusion 
spell. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for it. 


LEVEL 6: SHADOW STEP 

While entirely within Dim Light or Darkness, you 
can use a Bonus Action to teleport up to 60 feet to 
an unoccupied space you can see that is also in Dim 
Light or Darkness. You then have Advantage on the 
next melee attack you make before the end of the 
current turn. 


LEVEL 11: IMPROVED SHADOW STEP 

You can draw on your Shadowfell connection to 
empower your teleportation. When you use your 
Shadow Step, you can expend 1 Focus Point to re- 
move the requirement that you must start and end 
in Dim Light or Darkness for that use of the feature. 
As part of this Bonus Action, you can make an Un- 
armed Strike immediately after you teleport. 


LEVEL 17: CLOAK OF SHADOWS 
As a Magic action while entirely within Dim Light 
or Darkness, you can expend 3 Focus Points to 
shroud yourself with shadows for 1 minute, until 
you have the Incapacitated condition, or until you 
end your turn in Bright Light. While shrouded by 
these shadows, you gain the following benefits. 

Invisibility. You have the Invisible condition. 

Partially Incorporeal. You can move through occu- 
pied spaces as if they were Difficult Terrain. If you 
end your turn in such a space, you are shunted to 
the last unoccupied space you were in. 

Shadow Flurry. You can use your Flurry of Blows 
without expending any Focus Points. 


вае 


, SEES (| 


pe 


WARRIOR OF THE ÉLEMENTS 


WARRIOR OF THE ELEMENTS 
Wield Strikes and Bursts of Elemental Power 


Warriors of the Elements tap into the power of the 
Elemental Planes. Harnessing their supernatural 
focus, these Monks momentarily tame the energy of 
the Elemental Chaos to empower themselves in and 


out of battle. 


LEVEL 3: ELEMENTAL ATTUNEMENT 
At the start of your turn, you can expend 1 Focus 
Point to imbue yourself with elemental energy. The 
energy lasts for 10 minutes or until you have the 
Incapacitated condition. You gain the following ben- 
efits while this feature is active. 

Reach. When you make an Unarmed Strike, your 
reach is 10 feet greater than normal, as elemental 


energy extends from you. 

Elemental Strikes. Whenever you hit with your 
Unarmed Strike, you can cause it to deal your 
choice of Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder 
damage rather than its normal damage type. When 
you deal one of these types with it, you can also 
force the target to make a Strength saving throw. 
On a failed save, you can move the target up to 10 
feet toward or away from you, as elemental energy 
swirls around it. 


LEVEL 3: MANIPULATE ELEMENTS 
You know the Elementalism spell. Wisdom is your 
spellcasting ability for it. 


LEVEL 6: ELEMENTAL BURST 

As a Magic action, you can expend 2 Focus Points to 
cause elemental energy to burst in a 20-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on a point within 120 feet of your- 
self. Choose a damage type: Acid, Cold, Fire, Light- 
ning, or Thunder. 

Each creature in the Sphere must make a Dexter- 
ity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 
damage of the chosen type equal to three rolls of 
your Martial Arts die. On a successful save, a crea- 
ture takes half as much damage. 


LEVEL 11: STRIDE OF THE ELEMENTS 
While your Elemental Attunement is active, you 
also have a Fly Speed and a Swim Speed equal to 
your Speed. 


LEVEL 17: ELEMENTAL EPITOME 
While your Elemental Attunement is active, you 
also gain the following benefits. 

Damage Resistance. You gain Resistance to one of 
the following damage types of your choice: Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. At ihe start of 
each of your turns, you can change this choice. 

Destructive Stride. When you use your Step of the 
Wind, your Speed increases by 20 feet until the end 


of ti:e turn. For that duration, any creature of your 
choice takes damage equal to one roll of your Mar- 
tial Arts die when you enter a space within 5 feet 
of it. The damage type is your choice of Acid, Cold, 
Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. A creature can take 
this damage only once per turn. 

Empowered Strikes. Once on each of your turns, 
you can deal extra damage to a target equal to one 
roll of your Martial Arts die when you hit it with an 
Unarmed Strike. The extra damage is the same type 
dealt by that strike. 


WARRIOR OF THE OPEN HAND 


Master Unarmed Combat Techniques 


Warriors of the Open Hand are masters of unarmed 
combat. They learn techniques to push and trip 
their opponents and manipulate their own energy 
to protect themselves from harm. 


LEVEL 3: OPEN HAND TECHNIQUE 
Whenever you hit a creature with an attack granted 
by your Flurry of Blows, you can impose one of the 
following effects on that target. 

Addle. The target can't make Opportunity Attacks 
until the start of its next turn. 

Push. The target must succeed on a Strength sav- 
ing throw or be pushed up to 15 feet away from you. 
Topple. The target must succeed on a Dexterity 

saving throw or have the Prone condition. 


LEVEL 6: WHOLENESS OF BODY 

You gain the ability to heal yourself. As a Bonus Ac- 
tion, you can roll your Martial Arts die. You regain 
a number of Hit Points equal to the number rolled 
plus your Wisdom modifier (minimum of 1 Hit Point 
regained). 

You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. 


LEVEL 11: FLEET STEP 

When you take a Bonus Action other than Step of 
the Wind, you can also use Step of the Wind imme- 
diately after that Bonus Action. 


LEVEL 17: QUIVERING PALM 

You gain the ability to set up lethal vibrations in 
someone’s body. When you hit a creature with an 
Unarmed Strike, you can expend 4 Focus Points to 
start these imperceptible vibrations, which last for 
a number of days equal to your Monk level. The 
vibrations are harmless unless you take an action 
to end them. Alternatively, when you take the At- 
tack action on your turn, you can forgo one of the 
attacks to end the vibrations. To end them, you and 
the target must be on the same plane of existence. 


When you end them, the target must make a Consti- 
tution saving throw, taking 10d12 Force damage on 
a failed save or half as much damage on a successful 
one. 

You can have only one creature under the effect 
of this feature at a time. You can end the vibrations 
harmlessly (no action required). 


erdt 


-A———— — 


WARRIOR OF T { 


Coge PALADIN TRAITS 
Primary Ability 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Strength and Charisma 
D10 per Paladin level 
Wisdom and Charisma 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Athletics, Insight, 
Intimidation, Medicine, 
Persuasion, or Religion 
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons 
Armor Training Light, Medium, and Heavy 
armor and Shields 
Starting Equipment 


Choose A or B: (A) Chain 
Mail, Shield, Longsword, 
6 Javelins, Holy Symbol, 
Priest’s Pack, and 9 GP; or 
(B) 150 GP 


stand against the forces of annihilation and 

corruption. Whether sworn before a god’s 
altar, in a sacred glade before nature spirits, orina 
moment of desperation and grief with the dead as 
the only witnesses, a Paladin's oath is a powerful 
bond. It is a source of power that turns a devout 
warrior into a blessed champion. 

Paladins train to learn the skills of combat, mas- 
tering a variety of weapons and armor. Even so, 
their martial skills are secondary to the magical 
power they wield: power to heal the injured, smite 
their foes, and protect the helpless and those who 
fight at their side. 

Almost by definition, the life of a Paladin is an 
adventuring life, for every Paladin lives on the front 
lines of the cosmic struggle against annihilation. 
Fighters are rare enough among the ranks of a 
world’s armies, but even fewer people can claim the 
calling of a Paladin. When they do receive the call, 
these blessed folk turn from their former occupa- 
tions and take up arms and magic. 


D ALADINS ARE UNITED BY THEIR OATHS TO 


BECOMING A PALADIN ... 


AS A LEVEL] CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits in the Core Paladin Traits table. 

- Gain the Paladin's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Paladin Features table. 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

- Gain the following traits from the Core Paladin 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar- 
tial weapons, and training with Light and Medium 
armor and Shields. 


+ Gain the Paladin’s level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Paladin Features table. See the multiclass- 


ing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available 
spell slots. 


CBSE t 


PALADIN CLASS FEATURES 


As a Paladin, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Paladin levels. These 
features are listed in the Paladin Features table. 


LEVEL 1: Lay ON HANDS 

Your blessed touch can heal wounds. You have a 
pool of healing power that replenishes when you 
finish a Long Rest. With that pool, you can restore 


a total number of Hit Points equal to five times your 
Paladin level. 


As a Bonus Action, you can touch a creature 
(which could be yourself) and draw power from the 
pool of healing to restore a number of Hit Points to 
that creature, up to the maximum amount remain- 
ing in the pool. 

You can also expend 5 Hit Points from the pool 
of healing power to remove the Poisoned condition 
from the creature; those points don't also restore 
Hit Points to the creature. 


LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING 

You have learned to cast spells through prayer and 
meditation. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcast- 
ing. The information below details how you use 
those rules with Paladin spells, which appear in the 
Paladin spell list later in the class’s description. 

Spell Slots. The Paladin Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells. 
You regain all expended slots when you finish a 
Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To start, choose two level 1 Paladin 
spells. Heroism and Searing Smite are recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as 
you gain Paladin levels, as shown in the Prepared 
Spells column of the Paladin Features table. When- 
ever that number increases, choose additional 
Paladin spells until the number of spells on your 
list matches the number in the Paladin Features 
table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which 
you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 5 
Paladin, your list of prepared spells can include six 
Paladin spells of level 1 or 2 in any combination. 

If another Paladin feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don't count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Paladin spells for you. 


CHAPTER 5| CHARACTER CLASSES 


PALADIN FEATURES 


Proficiency 
Level Bonus Class Features 
1 +2 Lay On Hands, Spellcasting, 
Weapon Mastery 
2 +2 Fighting Style, Paladin’s Smite 
3 +2 Channel Divinity, Paladin Subclass 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 
5 +3 Extra Attack, Faithful Steed 
6 +3 Aura of Protection 
7 +3 Subclass feature 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 
9 +4 Abjure Foes 
10 +4 Aura of Courage 
1 +4 Radiant Strikes 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 
13 +5 — 
14 +5 Restoring Touch 
15 +5 Subclass feature 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 
7 +6 2s 
18 +6 Aura Expansion 
19 +6 Epic Boon 
20 +6 Subclass feature 


Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
finish a Long Rest, you can replace one spell on your 
list with another Paladin spell for which you have 
spell slots. 

Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is your spellcasting 
ability for your Paladin spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Holy Symbol as a 
Spellcasting Focus for your Paladin spells. 


LEVEL l: WEAPON MASTERY 

Your training with weapons allows you to use the 
mastery properties of two kinds of weapons of your 
choice with which you have proficiency, such as 
Longswords and Javelins. 

Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change 
the kinds of weapons you chose. For example, you 
could switch to using the mastery properties of Hal- 
berds and Flails. 


LEVEL 2: FIGHTING STYLE 
You gain a Fighting Style feat of your choice (see 
chapter 5 for feats). Instead of choosing one of those 
feats, you can choose the option below. 

Blessed Warrior. You learn two Cleric cantrips 
of your choice (see the Cleric class's section for a 
list of Cleric spells). Guidance and Sacred Flame are 


CHAPTER 27! CHARACTER CLASSES 


Channel Prepared — Spell Slots per Spell Level— 
Divinity Spells 1 2 3 4 5 


2 2 2 = pem == — 


© SD 0 0 € PW 
| | 
| |, il 
| | | 


| 
| 


14 
15 


2 
2 3 
2 3 
2 4 
2 4 
2 4 
2 4 
2 4 
2 4 
3 10 4 
3 4 
3 4 
3 4 
3 4 
3 4 
3 4 
3 4 
3 4 
3 15 4 


2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 


UJ UJ) WW WwW ш оо UG ш NM) м 
о UJ) UJ ш һә һу — a 


NN җм = 


recommended. The chosen cantrips count as Pala- 
din spells for you, and Charisma is your spellcasting 
ability for them. Whenever you gain a Paladin level, 
you can replace one of these cantrips with another 
Cleric cantrip. 


LEVEL 2: PALADIN’S SMITE 

You always have the Divine Smite spell prepared. In 
addition, you can cast it without expending a spell 
slot, but you must finish a Long Rest before you can 
cast it in this way again. 


LEVEL 3: CHANNEL DIVINITY 

You can channel divine energy directly from the 
Outer Planes, using it to fuel magical effects. You 
start with one such effect: Divine Sense, which is 
described below. Other Paladin features give addi- 
tional Channel Divinity effect options. Each time 
you use this class's Channel Divinity, you choose 
which effect from this class to create. 

You can use this class’s Channel Divinity twice. 
You regain one of its expended uses when you finish 
a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. You gain an additional use 
when you reach Paladin level 11. 


if a Channel Divinity effect requires a saving 
throw, the DC equals the spell save DC from this 
class's Spellcasting feature. 

Divine Sense. As a Bonus Action, you can open 
your awareness to detect Celestials, Fiends, and 
Undead. For the next 10 minutes or until you have 
the Incapacitated condition, you know the location 
of any creature of those types within 60 feet of 
yourself, and you know its creature type. Within 
the same radius, you also detect the presence of any 
place or object that has been consecrated or dese- 
crated, as with the Hallow spell. 


LEVEL 2: PALADIN SUBCLASS 

You gain a Paladin subclass of your choice. The 
Oath of Devotion, Oath of Glory, Oath of the An- 
cients, and Oath of Vengeance subclasses are de- 
tailed after this class's description. A subclass is a 
specialization that grants you features at certain 
Paladin levels. For the rest of your career, you gain 
each of your subclass's features that are of your Pal- 
adin level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Paladin 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK 
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn. 


LEVEL 5: FAITHFUL STEED 

You can call on the aid of an otherworldly steed. 

You always have the Find Steed spell prepared. 
You can also cast the spell once without expend- 

ing a spell slot, and you regain the ability to do so 

when you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 6: AURA OF PROTECTION 
You radiate a protective, unseeable aura in a 10-foot 
Emanation that originates from you. The aura is in- 
active while you have the Incapacitated condition. 
You and your allies in the aura gain a bonus to 
saving throws equal to your Charisma modifier 
(minimum bonus of +1). 
If another Paladin is present, a creature can ben- 
efit from only one Aura of Protection at a time; the 
creature chooses which aura while in them. 


LEVEL 9: ABJURE FOES 

As a Magic action, you can expend one use of this 
class's Channel Divinity to overwhelm foes with 
awe. As you present your Holy Symbol or weapon, 


ee eee 


BREAKING YOUR OATH 


A Paladin tries to hold to the highest standards of 
conduct, but even the most dedicated are fallible. 
Sometimes a Paladin transgresses their oath. 

A Paladin who has broken a vow typically seeks 
absolution, spending an all-night vigil as a sign 
of penitence or undertaking a fast. After a rite of 
forgiveness, the Paladin starts fresh. 

If your Paladin unrepentantly violates their oath, 
talk to your DM. Your Paladin should probably 
take a more appropriate subclass or even aban- 
don the class and adopt another one. 


a ae 


you can target a number of creatures equal to your 
Charisma modifier (minimum of one creature) that 
you can see within 60 feet of yourself. Each target 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have 
the Frightened condition for 1 minute or until it 
takes any damage. While Frightened in this way, a 
target can do only one of the following on its turns: 
move, take an action, or take a Bonus Action. 


LEVEL 10: AURA OF COURAGE 

You and your allies have Immunity to the Fright- 
ened condition while in your Aura of Protection. If 
a Frightened ally enters the aura, that condition has 
no effect on that ally while there. 


LEVEL 11: RADIANT STRIKES 

Your strikes now carry supernatural power. When 
you hit a target with an attack roll using a Melee 
weapon or an Unarmed Strike, the target takes an 
extra 1d8 Radiant damage. 


LEVEL 14: RESTORING TOUCH 

When you use Lay On Hands on a creature, you can 
also remove one or more of the following conditions 
from the creature: Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, 
Frightened, Paralyzed, or Stunned. You must ex- 
pend 5 Hit Points from the healing pool of Lay On 
Hands for each of these conditions you remove; 
those points don't also restore Hit Points to the 
creature. 


LEVEL 18: AURA EXPANSION 


Your Aura of Protection is now a 30-foot 
Emanation. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Truesight is recommended. 


CuUADTED 27 | CLIADAMTEOD MI acerae 


Е „> 


A PALAOIN'S OEDICATIONSTO HERIGAUSE 


MANIFESTS AS MAGICAL MIGHIS 


PALADIN SPELL LIST 

This section presents the Paladin spell list. The 
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha- 
betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed. 

In the Special column, C means the spell requires 
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it 
requires a specific Material component. 


LEVEL 1 PALADIN SPELLS S Mon 
Spell School Special 
Bless Enchantment С, M 
Command Enchantment = 
Compelled Duel Enchantment C 
Cure Wounds Abjuration — 
Detect Evil and Good Divination С 
Detect Magic Divination CR 
Detect Poison and Disease Divination GR 
Divine Favor Transmutation — 
Divine Smite Evocation — 
Heroism Enchantment С 
Protection from Evil and Abjuration C, M 
Good Spell School Special 
Purify Food and Drink Transmutation R Daylight Evocation — 
Searing Smite Evocation == Dispel Magic Abjuration Е 
Shield of Faith Abjuration C Elemental Weapon Transmutation C 
Thunderous Smite Evocation — Magic Circle Abjuration M 
Wrathful Smite Necromancy == Remove Curse Abjuration — 
LEVEL 2 PALADIN SPELLS Revivify acii T 
Spell School Special LEVEL 4 PALADIN SPELLS 
Aid Abjuration — Spell School Special 
Find Steed Conjuration — Aura of Life Abjuration C 
Gentle Repose Месготапсу В, М Aura of Purity Abjuration C 
Lesser Restoration Abjuration — Banishment Abjuration (a 
Locate Object Divination C Death Ward Abjuration = 
Magic Weapon Transmutation — Locate Creature Divination C 
Prayer of Healing Abjuration = Staggering Smite Enchantment — — 
Protection from Poison Abjuration — 
Shining Smite Transmutation С LEVEL 5 PALADIN SPELLS 
Warding Bond Abjuration M Spell School Special 
Zone of Truth Enchantment. 2 Banishing Smite Conjuration C 
Circle of Power Abjuration C 
LEVEL 3 PALADIN SPELLS Destructive Wave Evocation = 
Spell School Special Dispel Evil and Good Abjuration С 
Aura of Vitality Abjuration С Сеаѕ Enchantment — 
Blinding Smite Evocation = Greater Restoration Abjuration M 
Create Food and Water Conjuration — Raise Dead Necromancy M 
Crusader's Mantle Transmutation С Summon Celestial Conjuration C, M 


CHAPTER 3 Í CHARACTER CLASSES 


= 


PALADIN SUBCLASSES 


A Paladin subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Paladin levels, as specified 
in the subclass. This section presents the Oath of 
Devotion, Oath of Glory, Oath of the Ancients, and 
Oath of Vengeance subclasses. 

Each of these subclasses represents a body of 
oaths that a Paladin begins taking upon joining the 
class. The final oath, taken at level 3, is the culmi- 
nation of a Paladin’s training. Some characters with 
this class don’t consider themselves true Paladins 
until they’ve reached level 3 and made this oath. For 
others, the swearing of the oath is a formality, an 
official stamp on what was already in their hearts. 


OATH OF DEVOTION 
Uphold the Ideals of Justice and Order 


The Oath of Devotion binds Paladins to the ideals 
of justice and order. These Paladins meet the ar- 
chetype of the knight in shining armor. They hold 
themselves to the highest standards of conduct, 
and some—for better or worse—hold the rest of the 
world to the same standards. 

Many who swear this oath are devoted to gods 
of law and good and use their gods' tenets as the 
measure of personal devotion. Others hold angels as 
their ideals and incorporate images of angelic wings 
into their helmets or coats of arms. 

These paladins share the following tenets: 


- Let your word be your promise. 
- Protect the weak and never fear to act. 
- Let your honorable deeds be an example. 


LEVEL 3: OATH OF DEVOTION SPELLS 
The magic of your oath ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level 
specified in the Oath of Devotion Spells table, you 
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared. 


ОАТН OF DEVOTION SPELLS 


Paladin Level Spells 
3 Protection from Evil and Good, 
Shield of Faith 
5 Aid, Zone of Truth 
9 Beacon of Hope, Dispel Magic 
13 Freedom of Movement, 
Guardian of Faith 
7 Commune, Flame Strike 
LEVEL 3: SACRED WEAPON 
When you take the Attack action, you can expend 


one use of your Channel Divinity to imbue one 
Melee weapon that you are holding with positive 
energy. For 10 minutes or until you use this feature 


Олтн оғ Devotion 
SuBCLASS 


D 
| T 


Олтн oF GLory 
SUBCLASS 


again, you add your Charisma modifier to attack 
rolls you make with that weapon (minimum bonus 
of +1), and each time you hit with it, you cause it to 
deal its normal damage type or Radiant damage. 

The weapon also emits Bright Light in a 20-foot 
radius and Dim Light 20 feet beyond that. 

You can end this effect early (no action required), 
This effect also ends if you aren’t carrying the 


weapon. 


LEVEL 7: AURA OF DEVOTION 

You and your allies have Immunity to the Charmed 
condition while in your Aura of Protection. If a 
Charmed ally enters the aura, that condition has no 


effect on that ally while there. 


LEVEL 15: SMITE OF PROTECTION 

Your magical smite now radiates protective energy. 
Whenever you cast Divine Smite, you and your allies 
have Half Cover while in your Aura of Protection. 
The aura has this benefit until the start of your next 


turn. 


LEVEL 20: HOLY NIMBUS 

As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of 
Protection with holy power, granting the benefits 
below for 10 minutes or until you end them (no ac- 
tion required). Once you use this feature, you can't 
use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can 
also restore your use of it by expending a level 5 
spell slot (no action required). 

Holy Ward. You have Advantage on any saving 
throw you are forced to make by a Fiend or an 
Undead. 

Radiant Damage. Whenever an enemy starts its 
turn in the aura, that creature takes Radiant dam- 
age equal to your Charisma modifier plus your Pro- 
ficiency Bonus. 

Sunlight. The aura is filled with Bright Light that 
is sunlight. 

OATH OF GLORY 


Strive for the Heights of Heroism 


Paladins who take the Oath of Glory believe they 
and their companions are destined to achieve glory 
through deeds of heroism. They train diligently and 
encourage their companions, so they're all ready 
when destiny calls. 

These paladins share the following tenets: 


* Endeavor to be known by your deeds. 
* Face hardships with courage. 
* Inspire others to strive for glory. 


LEVEL 3: INSPIRING SMITE 
Immediately after you cast Divine Smite, you can 
expend one use of your Channel Divinity and 


distr. Gute Temporary Hit Points to creatures of 
your choice within 30 feet of yourself, which can 
include you. The total number of Temporary Hit 
Points equals 2d8 plus your Paladin level, divided 
among the chosen creatures however you like. 


LEVEL 3: OATH OF GLORY SPELLS 

The magic of your oath ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin 
level specified in the Oath of Glory Spells table, you 
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared. 


OaTH OF GLORY SPELLS 


Paladin Level Spells 
3 Guiding Bolt, Heroism 
5 Enhance Ability, Magic Weapon 
9 Haste, Protection from Energy 
13 Compulsion, Freedom of Movement 
7 Legend Lore, Yolande's Regal Presence 


LEVEL 3: PEERLESS ATHLETE 

As a Bonus Action, you can expend one use of your 
Channel Divinity to augment your athleticism. For 
1 hour, you have Advantage on Strength (Athletics) 
and Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks, and the distance 
of your Long and High Jumps increases by 10 feet 
(this extra distance costs movement as normal). 


LEVEL 7: AURA OF ALACRITY 
Your Speed increases by 10 feet. 

In addition, whenever an ally enters your Aura of 
Protection for the first time on a turn or starts their 
turn there, the ally's Speed increases by 10 feet until 
the end of their next turn. 


LEVEL 15: GLORIOUS DEFENSE 
You can turn defense into a sudden strike. When 
you or another creature you can see within 10 feet 
of you is hit by an attack roll, you can take a Reac- 
tion to grant a bonus to the target’s AC against that 
attack, potentially causing it to miss. The bonus 
equals your Charisma modifier (minimum of +1). If 
the attack misses, you can make one attack with a 
weapon against the attacker as part of this Reaction 
if the attacker is within your weapon's range. 

You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), 
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. 


LEVEL 20: LIVING LEGEND 

You can empower yourself with the legends— 
whether true or exaggerated—of your great deeds. 
As a Bonus Action, you gain the benefits below for 
10 minutes. Once you use this feature, you can't use 


it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also 
restore your use of it by expending a level 5 spell 
slot (no action required). 

Charismatic. You are blessed with an otherworldly 


presence and have Advantage on all Charisma 
checks. 


Saving Throw Reroll. If you fail a saving throw, 
you can take a Reaction to reroll it. You must use 
this new roll. 


Unerring Strike. Once on each of your turns when 
you make an attack roll with a weapon and miss, 
you can cause that attack to hit instead. 


OATH OF THE ANCIENTS 
Preserve Life and Light in the World 


The Oath of the Ancients is as old as the first elves. 
Paladins who swear this oath cherish the light; they 
love the beautiful and life-giving things of the world 
more than any principles of honor, courage, and 
justice. They often adorn their armor and clothing 
with images of growing things—leaves, antlers, or 
flowers—to reflect their commitment to preserving 
life and light. 

These paladins share the following tenets: 


- Kindle the light of hope. 
- Shelter life. 


* Delight in art and laughter. 


LEVEL 3: NATURE’S WRATH 

As a Magic action, you can expend one use of your 
Channel Divinity to conjure spectral vines around 
nearby creatures. Each creature of your choice that 
you can see within 15 feet of yourself must succeed 
on a Strength saving throw or have the Restrained 
condition for 1 minute. A Restrained creature re- 
peats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending 
the effect on itself on a success. 


LEVEL 3: OATH OF THE ANCIENTS SPELLS 
The magic of your oath ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin 
level specified in the Oath of the Ancients Spells 
table, you thereafter always have the listed spells 
prepared. 


OATH OF THE ANCIENTS SPELLS 
Paladin Level Spells 


3 Ensnaring Strike, Speak with Animals 
5 Misty Step, Moonbeam 

9 Plant Growth, Protection from Energy 
13 Ice Storm, Stoneskin 

7 Commune with Nature, Tree Stride 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


YIR 


LEVEL 7: AURA OF WARDING 

Ancient magic lies so heavily upon you that it forms 
an eldritch ward, blunting energy from beyond the 
Material Plane; you and your allies have Resistance 
to Necrotic, Psychic, and Radiant damage while in 
your Aura of Protection. 


LEVEL 15: UNDYING SENTINEL 
When you are reduced to O Hit Points and not killed 
outright, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead, and 
you regain a number of Hit Points equal to three 
times your Paladin level. Once you use this feature, 
you can’t do so again until you finish a Long Rest. 
Additionally, you can’t be aged magically, and you 
cease visibly aging. 


LEVEL 20: ELDER CHAMPION 

As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of 
Protection with primal power, granting the benefits 
below for 1 minute or until you end them (no action 
required). Once you use this feature, you can’t use it 
again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also re- 
store your use of it by expending a level 5 spell slot 
(no action required). 

Diminish Defiance. Enemies in the aura have Dis- 
advantage on saving throws against your spells and 
Channel Divinity options. 

Regeneration. At the start of each of your turns, 
you regain 10 Hit Points. 

Swift Spells. Whenever you cast a spell that has 
a casting time of an action, you can cast it using a 
Bonus Action instead. 


OATH OF VENGEANCE 
Punish Evildoers at Any Cost 


The Oath of Vengeance is a solemn commitment to 
punish those who have committed grievously evil 
acts. When evil armies slaughter helpless villagers, 
when a tyrant defies the will of the gods, when а 
thieves’ guild grows too violent, when a dragon 
rampages through the countryside—at times like 
these, paladins arise and swear an Oath of Ven- 
geance to set right what has gone wrong. 

These paladins share the following tenets: 


* Show the wicked no mercy. 
- Fight injustice and its causes. 
* Aid those harmed by injustice. 


LEVEL 3: OATH OF VENGEANCE SPELLS 

The magic of your oath ensures you always have 

certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level 

specified in the Oath of Vengeance Spells table, you 

thereafter always have the listed spells prepared. 
OATH oF THE ANCIENTS: 

SUBCLASS. ; 


OATH GF VENGEANCE SPELLS 
Paladin Level Spells 


3 Bane, Hunter's Mark m 
5 Hold Person, Misty Step 

9 Haste, Protection from Energy 

13 Banishment, Dimension Door 

17 Hold Monster, Scrying 


LEVEL 3: VOW OF ENMITY 
When you take the Attack action, you can expend 
one use of your Channel Divinity to utter a vow of 
enmity against a creature you can see within 30 
feet of yourself. You have Advantage on attack rolls 
against the creature for 1 minute or until you use 
this feature again. 

If the creature drops to O Hit Points before the 
vow ends, you can transfer the vow to a differ- 
ent creature within 30 feet of yourself (no action 
required). 


LEVEL 7: RELENTLESS AVENGER 

Your supernatural focus helps you close off a foe’s 
retreat. When you hit a creature with an Opportu- 
nity Attack, you can reduce the creature’s Speed to 
O until the end of the current turn. You can then 
move up to half your Speed as part of the same 
Reaction. This movement doesn’t provoke Opportu- 
nity Attacks. 


LEVEL 15: SOUL OF VENGEANCE 

Immediately after a creature under the effect of 
your Vow of Enmity hits or misses with an attack 
roll, you can take a Reaction to make a melee attack 
against that creature if it’s within range. 


LEVEL 20: AVENGING ANGEL 
As a Bonus Action, you gain the benefits below for 
10 minutes or until you end them (no action re- 
quired). Once you use this feature, you can't use it 
again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also re- 
store your use of it by expending a level 5 spell slot 
(no action required). 

Flight. You sprout spectral wings on your back, 
have a Fly Speed of 60 feet, and can hover. 

Frightful Aura. Whenever an enemy starts its 
turn in your Aura of Protection, that creature must 
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the 
Frightened condition for 1 minute or until it takes 
any damage. Attack rolls against the Frightened 
creature have Advantage. 


Олтн OF VENGEANCE 


Su8BcLASS 


Core RANGER TRAITS 
Primary Ability 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Dexterity and Wisdom 
D10 per Ranger level 

Strength and Dexterity 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 3: Animal Handling, 
Athletics, Insight, Investi- 

gation, Nature, Perception, | 
Stealth, or Survival | 


Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons 


Light and Medium armor 

and Shields 

Choose A or B: (A) Studded 
Leather Armor, Scimitar, 
Shortsword, Longbow, 20 
Arrows, Quiver, Druidic 

Focus (sprig of mistletoe), 
Explorer's Pack, and 7 GP; or 

(B) 150 GP | 


Armor Training 


Starting Equipment 


p 
ISENE 


AR FROM BUSTLING CITIES, AMID THE 

fts 1 trees of trackless forests and across wide 
2 L plains, Rangers keep their unending watch in 
the wilderness. Rangers learn to track their quarry 
as a predator does, moving stealthily through the 
wilds and hiding themselves in brush and rubble. 

Thanks to their connection with nature, Rangers 
can also cast spells that harness primal powers of 
the wilderness. A Ranger's talents and magic are 
honed with deadly focus to protect the world from 
the ravages of monsters and tyrants. 


BECOMING A RANGER ... 


As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 
- Gain all the traits in the Core Ranger Traits table. 


- Gain the Ranger's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Ranger Features table. 


AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

- Gain the following traits from the Core Ranger 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar- 
tial weapons, proficiency in one skill of your 
choice from the Ranger's skill list, and training 
with Light and Medium armor and Shields. 

- Gain the Ranger's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Ranger Features table. See the multiclass- 
ing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available 
spell slots. 


RANGER CLASS FEATURES 


As a Ranger, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Ranger levels. These 
features are listed in the Ranger Features table. 


LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING 

You have learned to channel the magical essence of 
nature to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on 
spellcasting. The information below details how you 
use those rules with Ranger spells, which appear in 
the Ranger spell list later in the class's description. 

Spell Slots. The Ranger Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells. 
You regain all expended slots when you finish a 
Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list 
of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast 
with this feature. To start, choose two level 1 
Ranger spells. Cure Wounds and Ensnaring Strike are 
recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as 
you gain Ranger levels, as shown in the Prepared 
Spells column of the Ranger Features table. When- 
ever that number increases, choose additional 
Ranger spells until the number of spells on your E 
list matches the number in the Ranger Features P 
table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which 
you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 5 
Ranger, your list of prepared spells can include six 
Ranger spells of level 1 or 2 in any combination. 

If another Ranger feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don't count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Ranger spells for you. 

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
finish a Long Rest, you can replace one spell on your 
list with another Ranger spell for which you have 
spell slots. 

Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting 
ability for your Ranger spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Druidic Focus as 
a Spellcasting Focus for your Ranger spells. 


imei 


LEVEL 1: FAVORED ENEMY 

You always have the Hunter's Mark spell prepared. 
You can cast it twice without expending a spell 

slot, and you regain all expended uses of this ability 
when you finish a Long Rest. 

The number of times you can cast the spell with- 
out a spell slot increases when you reach certain 
Ranger levels, as shown in the Favored Enemy col- 
umn of the Ranger Features table. 


ALIaAprrp ПТ | Mu aANnanmTrrerndn ATacere 


YYA 


* 


120 | CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


RANGER FEATURES 


Proficiency 
Level Bonus Class Features 
1 +2 Spellcasting, Favored Enemy, 
Weapon Mastery 
2 +2 Deft Explorer, Fighting Style 
3 +2 Ranger Subclass 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 
5 +3 Extra Attack 
6 +3 Roving 
7 +3 Subclass feature 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 
9 +4 Expertise 
10 +4 Tireless 
11 +4 Subclass feature 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 
13 +5 Relentless Hunter 
14 +5 Nature’s Veil 
15 +5 Subclass feature 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 
7 +6 Precise Hunter 
18 +6 Feral Senses 
19 +6 Epic Boon 
20 +6 Foe Slayer 


LEVEL 1: WEAPON MASTERY 

Your training with weapons allows you to use the 
mastery properties of two kinds of weapons of your 
choice with which you have proficiency, such as 
Longbows and Shortswords. 

Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change 
the kinds of weapons you chose. For example, you 
could switch to using the mastery properties of 
Scimitars and Longswords. 


LEVEL 2: DEFT EXPLORER 
Thanks to your travels, you gain the following 
benefits. 

Expertise. Choose one of your skill proficiencies 
with which you lack Expertise. You gain Expertise 
in that skill. 

Languages. You know two languages of your 
choice from the language tables in chapter 2. 


LEVEL 2: FIGHTING STYLE 
You gain a Fighting Style feat of your choice (see 
chapter 5). Instead of choosing one of those feats, 
you can choose the option below. 

Druidic Warrior. You learn two Druid cantrips of 
your choice (see the Druid class's section for a list of 


Favored Prepared — Spell Slots per Spell Level — 


Enemy Spells 1 2 3 4 5 
2 2 2 == == = — 


iO ON ND 0 «л BPW 
| | 
| E 
| | d 


| 
| 


= 
o 


15 
15 


OY бу OG» бу ©з Өз {л (ux dx d& & & QU (GA he LOO. NX AOD RO) 
ud 
© 


2 
3 
3 
4 2 
4 2 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 
4 3 


WW оо оо UL) WwW шо оо ш NM) м 
WwW UU шо N MN | ш 


N N o o: 


Druid spells). Guidance and Starry Wisp are recom- 
mended. The chosen cantrips count as Ranger spells 
for you, and Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for 
them. Whenever you gain a Ranger level, you can 
replace one of these cantrips with another Druid 
cantrip. 


LEVEL 3: RANGER SUBCLASS 

You gain a Ranger subclass of your choice. The 
Beast Master, Fey Wanderer, Gloom Stalker, and 
Hunter subclasses are detailed after this class's de- 
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Ranger levels. For the rest 
of your career, you gain each of your subclass's fea- 
tures that are of your Ranger level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Ranger 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: ExTRA ATTACK 
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn. 


Level 9: ROVING 

Your Speed increases by 10 feet while you aren't 
wearing Heavy armor. You also have a Climb Speed 
and a Swim Speed equal to your Speed. 


LEVEL 9: EXPERTISE 
Choose two of your skill proficiencies with which 
you lack Expertise. You gain Expertise in those skills. 


LEVEL 10: TIRELESS 
Primal forces now help fuel you on your journeys, 
granting you the following benefits. 

Temporary Hit Points. As a Magic action, you can 
give yourself a number of Temporary Hit Points 
equal to 1d8 plus your Wisdom modifier (minimum 
of 1). You can use this action a number of times 
equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), 
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. 

Decrease Exhaustion. Whenever you finish a Short 
Rest, your Exhaustion level, if any, decreases by 1. 


LEVEL 13: RELENTLESS HUNTER 


Taking damage can't break your Concentration on 
Hunter's Mark. 


LEVEL 14: NATURE'S VEIL 
You invoke spirits of nature to magically hide your- 
self. As a Bonus Action, you can give yourself the 
Invisible condition until the end of your next turn. 
You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest. 


LEVEL 17: PRECISE HUNTER 
You have Advantage on attack rolls against the 
creature currently marked by your Hunter's Mark. 


LEVEL 18: FERAL SENSES 
Your connection to the forces of nature grants you 
Blindsight with a range of 30 feet. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: FOE SLAYER 


The damage die of your Hunter's Mark is a d1O rather 
than a d6. 


RANGER SPELL LIST 


This section presents the Ranger spell list. The 
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha- 
betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed. 
In the Special column, C means the spell requires 
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it 
requires a specific Material component. 


LEVEL 1 RANGER SPELLS 


Spell 

Alarm 

Animal Friendship 
Cure Wounds 
Detect Magic 
Detect Poison and Disease 
Ensnaring Strike 
Entangle 

Fog Cloud 
Goodberry 

Hail of Thorns 
Hunter's Mark 
Jump 

Longstrider 

Speak with Animals 


LEVEL 2 RANGER SPELLS 


Spell 

Aid 

Animal Messenger 
Barkskin 

Beast Sense 

Cordon of Arrows 
Darkvision 

Enhance Ability 

Find Traps 

Gust of Wind 

Lesser Restoration 
Locate Animals or Plants 
Locate Object 

Magic Weapon 

Pass without Trace 
Protection from Poison 
Silence 

Spike Growth 
Summon Beast 


LEVEL 3 RANGER SPELLS 


Spell 

Conjure Animals 
Conjure Barrage 
Daylight 

Dispel Magic 
Elemental Weapon 
Lightning Arrow 


School Special 
Abjuration R 
Enchantment — 
Abjuration 

Divination C,R 
Divination C,R 


Conjuration С 
Сопјигайоп С 
Соп)игайоп С 
Conjuration — 
Conjuration — 
Divination € 
Transmutation Е 


Transmutation — 


Divination R 
School Special 
Abjuration — 
Enchantment R 


Transmutation — 
Divination C,R 
Transmutation — 


Transmutation — 


Transmutation С 
Divination — 
Evocation С 
Abjuration — 
Divination R 
Divination G 
Transmutation — 
Abjuration С 
Abjuration — 
Illusion C,R 


Transmutation C 
Conjuration C, M 


School Special 
Conjuration © 
Conjuration — 
Evocation — 
Abjuration — 


Transmutation C 


Transmutation — 


Spell 

Meld into Stone 
Nondetection 
Plant Growth 
Protection from Energy 
Revivify 

Speak with Plants 
Summon Fey 
Water Breathing 
Water Walk 

Wind Wall 


LEVEL 4 RANGER SPELLS 


Spell 

Conjure Woodland Beings 
Dominate Beast 
Freedom of Movement 
Grasping Vine 

Locate Creature 
Stoneskin 

Summon Elemental 


School 
Transmutation 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 


Evocation 


School 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Divination 
Transmutation 


Conjuration 


CHAPTER 31 CHARACTER CLASSES 


Special 
R 
M 


Special 


C 
C 


C, M 
C, M 


LEVEL 5 RANGER SPELLS 


Spell School Special 
Commune with Nature Divination R 
Conjure Volley Conjuration == 
Greater Restoration Abjuration M 
Steel Wind Strike Conjuration M 
Swift Quiver Transmutation С, М 
Tree Stride Conjuration € 


RANGER SUBCLASSES 


A Ranger subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Ranger levels, as specified 
in the subclass. This section presents the Beast 
Master, Fey Wanderer, Gloom Stalker, and Hunter 


subclasses. 


BEAST MASTER 


Bond with a Primal Beast 

A Beast Master forms a mystical bond with a special 
animal, drawing on primal magic and a deep con- 
nection to the natural world. 


LEVEL 3: PRIMAL COMPANION 

You magically summon a primal beast, which draws 
strength from your bond with nature. Choose its 
stat block: Beast of the Land, Beast of the Sea, or 
Beast of the Sky. You also determine the kind of 
animal it is, choosing a kind appropriate for the stat 
block. Whatever beast you choose, it bears primal 
markings indicating its supernatural origin. 

The beast is Friendly to you and your allies and 
obeys your commands. It vanishes if you die. 

The Beast in Combat. In combat, the beast acts 
during your turn. It can move and use its Reaction 
on its own, but the only action it takes is the Dodge 
action unless you take a Bonus Action to command 
it to take an action in its stat block or some other 
action. You can also sacrifice one of your attacks 
when you take the Attack action to command the 
beast to take the Beast's Strike action. If you have 
the Incapacitated condition, the beast acts on its 
own and isn't limited to the Dodge action. 

Restoring or Replacing the Beast. If the beast has 
died within the last hour, you can take a Magic 
action to touch it and expend a spell slot. The beast 
returns to life after 1 minute with all its Hit Points 
restored. 

Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can sum- 
mon a different primal beast, which appears in an 
unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. You choose 
its stat block and appearance. If you already have a 
beast from this feature, the old one vanishes when 
the new one appears. 


| Medium Beast, Neutral 


| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
| STR 14 +2 +2 Drex]14 +2 42 Сом15 42 +2 
INT 8 -1 -1 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHAT +0 +0 


| Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 


| 
| 
| 


| AC 13 plus your Wisdom modifier 
| HP 5 plus five times your Ranger level (the beast has a 


| Primal Bond. Add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability 
| check or saving throw the beast makes. 


| Beast's Strike. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your 


LEVEL 7: EXCEPTIONAL TRAINING 
When you take a Bonus Action to command your 
Primal Companion beast to take an action, you 
can also command it to take the Dash, Disengage, 
Dodge, or Help action using its Bonus Action. 

In addition, whenever it hits with an attack 
roll and deals damage, it can deal your choice of 
Force damage or its normal damage type. 


LEVEL 11: BESTIAL FURY 

When you command your Primal Companion 
beast to take the Beast’s Strike action, the beast 
can use it twice. 

In addition, the first time each turn it hits a 
creature under the effect of your Hunter’s Mark 
spell, the beast deals extra Force damage equal to 
the bonus damage of that spell. 


LEVEL 15: SHARE SPELLS 
When you cast a spell targeting yourself, you can 
also affect your Primal Companion beast with the 
kaa if the beast is within 30 feet of you. 


(Beast OF THE нр 


number of Hit Dice [d8s] equal to your Ranger level) 
| Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft. 


MOD SAVE | 


| Languages Understands the languages you know 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


TRAITS 


ACTIONS. 


spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 + 2 plus your 
Wisdom modifier Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing 
damage (your choice when you summon the beast). 

If the beast moved at least 20 feet straight toward 
the target before the hit, the target takes an extra 1d6 
damage of the same type, and the target has the Prone 
condition if it is a Large or smaller creature. 


Beast Master 


SuBcLAsS 


FEY WANDERER == "RR: 


! BEAST OF THE SkY 


| Small Beast, Neutral 
| AC 13 plus your Wisdom modifier 


| HP 4 plus four times your Ranger level (the beast has a 

| number of Hit Dice [d6s] equal to your Ranger level) 

i Speed 10 ft., Fly 60 ft. 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 

| srr 6 -2 -2 Dexl6 43 43 Сом13 +1 + 

| мт 8 -1 -1 Wis 14 42 +2 CHAM] +0 +0 

| Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 
Languages Understands the languages you know | 

! CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


MOD SAVE || 


| TRAITS 

| Flyby. The beast doesn’t provoke Opportunity Attacks 
| when it flies out of an enemy’s reach. 

! Primal Bond. Add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability 
check or saving throw the beast makes. 


| ACTIONS 
| Beast’s Strike. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your | 
| spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d4 + 3 plus your 

Wisdom modifier Slashing damage. | 


\ 


| BEAST OF THE SEA 

| Medium Beast, Neutral 

| AC 13 plus your Wisdom modifier 

| HP 5 plus five times your Ranger level (the beast has а 

| number of Hit Dice [d8s] equal to your Ranger level) 

| Speed 5 ft., Swim 60 ft. 

i MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 14 42 +2 Dex 14 +2 +2 Сом15 +2 +2 

| їмт 8 -1 -1 Wis M +2 +2 CHA Tl +0 +0 


| Senses Darkvision 90 ft., Passive Perception 12 

| Languages Understands the languages you know 
| CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) i 
i | 
| TRAITS | 
| Amphibious. The beast can breathe air and water. 


| 
‚ Primal Bond. Add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability | 
| check or saving throw the beast makes. | 
i 


! 


| ACTIONS 

| Beast's Strike. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your 

| spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 146 + 2 plus your 

| Wisdom modifier Bludgeoning or Piercing damage 

! (your choice when you summon the beast), and the tar- 


| get has the Grappled condition (escape DC equals your 
| spell save DC). | 


CH ADTED27 ! CHADA(CTED (CI ASGEG 


Wield Fey Mirth and Fury 

A fey mystique surrounds you, thanks to the boon 
of an archfey or a location in the Fey wild that 
transformed you. However you gained fey magic, 
you are now a Fey Wanderer. Your joyful laughter 
brightens the hearts of the downtrodden, and your 
martial prowess strikes terror in your foes, for great 
is the mirth of the fey and dreadful is their fury. 


LEVEL 3: DREADFUL STRIKES 

You can augment your weapon strikes with 
mind-scarring magic drawn from the murky hol- 
lows of the Feywild. When you hit a creature with a 
weapon, you can deal an extra 1d4 Psychic damage 
to the target, which can take this extra damage only 
once per turn. The extra damage increases to 1d6 
when you reach Ranger level 11. 


LEVEL 3: FEY WANDERER SPELLS 
When you reach a Ranger level specified in the Fey 
Wanderer Spells table, you thereafter always have 


the listed spells prepared. 


FEY WANDERER SPELLS 
Ranger Level Spell 


3 Charm Person 

5 Misty Step 

9 Summon Fey 

13 Dimension Door 
7 Mislead 


You also possess a fey blessing. Choose it from the 
Feywild Gifts table or determine it randomly. 


FEYWILD GIFTS 
146 Gift 

1 Illusory butterflies flutter around you while 
you take a Short or Long Rest. 

2 Flowers bloom from your hair each dawn. 

3  Youfaintly smell of cinnamon, lavender, nut- 
meg, or another comforting herb or spice. 

4 — Your shadow dances while no one is looking 
directly at it. 
Horns or antlers sprout from your head. 

6 — Your skin and hair change color each dawn. 


LEVEL 3: OTHERWORLDLY Gi.AMOUR 
Whenever you make a Charisma check, you gain a 
bonus to the check equal to your Wisdom modifier 
(minimum of «1). 

You also gain proficiency in one of these skills of 
your choice: Deception, Performance, or Persuasion. 


oar 


Lever: 7: BEGUILING TWIST 

The magic of the Feywild guards your mind. You 
have Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end 
the Charmed or Frightened condition. 

In addition, whenever you or a creature you can 
see within 120 feet of you succeeds on a saving 
throw to avoid or end the Charmed or Frightened 
condition, you can take a Reaction to force a differ- 
ent creature you can see within 120 feet of yourself 
to make a Wisdom save against your spell save DC. 
On a failed save, the target is Charmed or Fright- 
ened (your choice) for 1 minute. The target repeats 
the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
effect on itself on a success. 


LEVEL 11: FEY REINFORCEMENTS 

You can cast Summon Fey without a Material com- 
ponent. You can also cast it once without a spell 
slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in this way 
when you finish a Long Rest. 

Whenever you start casting the spell, you can 
modify it so that it doesn't require Concentration. If 
you do so, the spell's duration becomes 1 minute for 
that casting. 


244 


ut 
TIFFEFTPEEFYFFFFF 


LEVEL 15: Misty WANDERER 
You can cast Misty Step without expending a spell 
slot. You can do so a number of times equal to your 
Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you re- 
gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 
In addition, whenever you cast Misty Step, you can 
bring along one willing creature you can see within 
5 feet of yourself. That creature teleports to an un- 
occupied space of your choice within 5 feet of your 
destination space. 


ly 


GLOOM STALKER х 
Draw on Shadow Magic to Fight Your Foes 


Gloom Stalkers are at home in the darkest places, 
wielding magic drawn from the Shadowfell to com- 
bat enemies that lurk in darkness. 


LEVEL 3: DREAD AMBUSHER 
You have mastered the art of creating fearsome am- 
bushes, granting you the following benefits. 

Ambusher's Leap. At the start of your first turn of 
each combat, your Speed increases by 10 feet until 
the end of that turn. 

Dreadful Strike. When you attack a creature and 
hit it with a weapon, you can deal an extra 2d6 Psy- 
chic damage. You can use this benefit only once per 
turn, you can use it a number of times equal to your 
Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you re- 
gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 

Initiative Bonus. When you roll Initiative, you can 
add your Wisdom modifier to the roll. 


Fev WANDERER 


SugcLASS 


LEVEL 3: GLOOM STALKER SPELLS 

When you reach a Ranger level specified in the 
Gloom Stalker Spells table, you thereafter always 
have the listed spells prepared. 


GLOOM STALKER SPELLS 
Ranger Level Spells 


3 Disguise Self 

5 Rope Trick 

9 Fear 

13 Greater Invisibility 
7 Seeming 


LEVEL 3: UMBRAL SIGHT 

You gain Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. If you 
already have Darkvision when you gain this feature, 
its range increases by 60 feet. 

You are also adept at evading creatures that rely 
on Darkvision. While entirely in Darkness, you have 
the Invisible condition to any creature that relies on 
Darkvision to see you in that Darkness. 


LEVEL 7: IRON MIND 

You have honed your ability to resist mind-altering 
powers. You gain proficiency in Wisdom saving 
throws. If you already have this proficiency, you 
instead gain proficiency in Intelligence or Charisma 
saving throws (your choice). 


LEVEL 1l: STALKER’S FLURRY 

The Psychic damage of your Dreadful Strike be- 
comes 2d8. In addition, when you use the Dreadful 
Strike effect of your Dread Ambusher feature, you 
can cause one of the following additional effects. 

Sudden Strike. You can make another attack with 
the same weapon against a different creature that 
is within 5 feet of the original target and that is 
within the weapon’s range. 

Mass Fear. The target and each creature within 10 
feet of it must make a Wisdom saving throw against 
your spell save DC. On а failed save, a creature has 
the Frightened condition until the start of your next 
turn. 


LEVEL 15: SHADOWY DODGE 

When a creature makes an attack roll against you, 
you can take a Reaction to impose Disadvantage on 
that roll. Whether the attack hits or misses, you can 
then teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space 
you can see. 


Ri у 6 
боом STALKER ТШШ y NU 


HUNTER 


Protect Nature and People from Destruction 


—————————— 


You stalk prey in the wilds and elsewhere, using 
your abilities as a Hunter to protect nature and 
people every where from forces that would de- 
stroy them. 


LEVEL 3: HUNTER’S LORE 

You can call on the forces of nature to re- 
veal certain strengths and weaknesses of 
your prey. While a creature is marked by 
your Hunter's Mark, you know whether 
that creature has any Immunities, Resis- 
tances, or Vulnerabilities, and if the crea- 
ture has any, you know what they are. 


LEVEL 3: HUNTER’S PREY 

You gain one of the following feature op- 

tions of your choice. Whenever you finish 
a Short or Long Rest, you can replace the 

chosen option with the other one. 

Colossus Slayer. Your tenacity can wear 
down even the most resilient foes. When 
you hit a creature with a weapon, the weapon 
deals an extra 1d8 damage to the target if it’s 
missing any of its Hit Points. You can deal this 
extra damage only once per turn. 

Horde Breaker. Once on each of your turns when 
you make an attack with a weapon, you can make 
another attack with the same weapon against a dif- 
ferent creature that is within 5 feet of the original 
target, that is within the weapon's range, and that 
you haven't attacked this turn. 


LEVEL 7: DEFENSIVE TACTICS 
You gain one of the following feature options of 
your choice. Whenever you finish a Short or Long 
Rest, you can replace the chosen option with 
the other one. 

Escape the Horde. Opportunity Attacks 
have Disadvantage against you. 

Multiattack Defense. When a creature 
hits you with an attack roll, that creature 
has Disadvantage on all other attack rolls 
against you this turn. 


LEVEL 11: SUPERIOR HUNTER'S PREY HUNTER 
Once per turn when you deal damage to a creature | Susctass 
marked by your Hunter's Mark, you can also deal | / 


that spell's extra damage to a different creature that 
you can see within 30 feet of the first creature. 


LEVEL 15: SUPERIOR HUNTER'S DEFENSE 
When you take damage, you can take a Reaction 


other damage of the same type until the end of the 
current turi 


A Dexterous Expertin Stealth and Subterfime 


E. ми - > - 
j 


- 


- Core ROGUE TRAITS 
" Primary Ability Dexterity 
Hit Point Die D8 per Rogue level 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Dexterity and Intelligence 


Skill Proficiencies Choose 4: Acrobatics, Ath- 

| letics, Deception, Insight, 
Intimidation, Investigation, 
| Perception, Persuasion, 

| Sleight of Hand, or Stealth 
' Weapon Proficiencies 


Simple weapons and Mar- 

tial weapons that have the 

| Finesse or Light property 

Tool Proficiencies Thieves' Tools 

Armor Training Light armor 

| Starting Equipment Choose A or B: (A) Leather 

i Armor, 2 Daggers, Short- 
sword, Shortbow, 20 Arrows, 
Quiver, Thieves' Tools, Bur- 

| glar's Pack, and 8 СР; ог (B) 

p 100 GP 


their foes' vulnerabilities to get the upper 

hand in any situation. They have a knack for 
finding the solution to just about any problem. A 
few even learn magical tricks to supplement their 
other abilities. Many Rogues focus on stealth and 
deception, while others refine skills that help them 
in a dungeon environment, such as climbing, finding 
and disarming traps, and opening locks. 

In combat, Rogues prioritize subtle strikes over 
brute strength. They would rather make one precise 
strike than wear an opponent down with a barrage 
of blows. 

Some Rogues began their careers as criminals, 
while others used their cunning to fight crime. 
Whatever a Rogue's relation to the law, no common 
criminal or officer of the law can match the subtle 
brilliance of the greatest Rogues. 


R OGUES RELY ON CUNNING, STEALTH, AND 


BECOMING A ROGUE... 


As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits in the Core Rogue Traits table. 

- Gain the Rogue's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Rogue Features table. 


As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 
* Gain the following traits from the Core Rogue | 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency in one skill | 
of your choice from the Rogue's skill list, pro- 


ficiency with Thieves’ Tools, and training with 
Light armor. 


* Gain the Rogue's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Rogue Features table. 


ROGUE CLASS FEATURES 


As a Rogue, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Rogue levels. These 
features are listed in the Rogue Features table. 


LEVEL 1: EXPERTISE 
You gain Expertise in two of your skill proficiencies 
of your choice. Sleight of Hand and Stealth are rec- 
ommended if you have proficiency in them. 

At Rogue level 6, you gain Expertise in two more 
of your skill proficiencies of your choice. 


LEVEL 1: SNEAK ATTACK 

You know how to strike subtly and exploit a foe’s 
distraction. Once per turn, you can deal an extra 
1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack 
roll if you have Advantage on the roll and the attack 
uses a Finesse or a Ranged weapon. The extra dam- 
age's type is the same as the weapon's type. 

You don’t need Advantage on the attack roll if at 
least one of your allies is within 5 feet of the target, 
the ally doesn’t have the Incapacitated condition, 
and you don't have Disadvantage on the attack roll. 

The extra damage increases as you gain Rogue 
levels, as shown in the Sneak Attack column of the 
Rogue Features table. 


LEVEL 1: THIEVES’ CANT 

You picked up various languages in the commu- 
nities where you plied your roguish talents. You 
know Thieves’ Cant and one other language of your 
choice, which you choose from the language tables 
in chapter 2. 


LEVEL 1: WEAPON MASTERY 

Your training with weapons allows you to use the 
mastery properties of two kinds of weapons of your 
choice with which you have proficiency, such as 
Daggers and Shortbows. 

Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change 
the kinds of weapons you chose. For example, you 
could switch to using the mastery properties of 
Scimitars and Shortswords. 


poe 


("11 ^ ОТЕ 2 | СЛ АТА ТЕП At А ест с 


ROGUE FEATURES 


Sneak Attack 


Proficiency 
Level Bonus Class Features 

1 +2 Expertise, Sneak Attack, Thieves’ Cant, Weapon Mastery n 

2 +2 Cunning Action 

3 +2 Rogue Subclass, Steady Aim 2d6 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 2d6 

5 43 Cunning Strike, Uncanny Dodge 3d6 

6 +3 Expertise 3d6 

7 +3 Evasion, Reliable Talent 4d6 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 4d6 
9 +4 Subclass feature 5d6 
10 +4 Ability Score Improvement 5d6 
n +4 Improved Cunning Strike 6d6 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 6d6 
13 +5 Subclass feature 7d6 
14 +5 Devious Strikes 7d6 
15 +5 Slippery Mind 8d6 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 8d6 
17 +6 Subclass feature 9d6 
18 16 Elusive 9d6 
19 +6 Epic Boon 10d6 
20 +6 Stroke of Luck 10d6 


LEVEL 2: CUNNING ACTION 

Your quick thinking and agility allow you to move 
and act quickly. On your turn, you can take one of 
the following actions as a Bonus Action: Dash, Dis- 


engage, or Hide. 


LEVEL 3: ROGUE SUBCLASS 

You gain a Rogue subclass of your choice. The Ar- 
cane Trickster, Assassin, Soulknife, and Thief sub- 
classes are detailed after this class's description. A 
subclass is a specialization that grants you features 
at certain Rogue levels. For the rest of your career, 
you gain each of your subclass's features that are of 
your Rogue level or lower. 


LEVEL 3: STEADY AIM 

As a Bonus Action, you give yourself Advantage on 
your next attack roll on the current turn. You can 
use this feature only if you haven't moved during 
this turn, and after you use it, your Speed is O until 
the end of the current turn. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Rogue 
levels 8, 10, 12, and 16. 


CHAPTER 2 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


LEVEL 5: CUNNING STRIKE 

You've developed cunning ways to use your Sneak 
Attack. When you deal Sneak Attack damage, you 
can add one of the following Cunning Strike effects. 
Each effect has a die cost, which is the number of 
Sneak Attack damage dice you must forgo to add 
the effect. You remove the die before rolling, and 
the effect occurs immediately after the attack's 
damage is dealt. For example, if you add the Poison 
effect, remove 1d6 from the Sneak Attack's damage 
before rolling. 

If a Cunning Strike effect requires a saving throw, 
the DC equals 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and 
Proficiency Bonus. 

Poison (Cost: 146). You add a toxin to your strike, 
forcing the target to make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, the target has the Poisoned 
condition for 1 minute. At the end of each of its 
turns, the Poisoned target repeats the save, ending 
the effect on itself on a success. 

To use this effect, you must have a Poisoner's Kit 
on your person. 

Trip (Cost: 146). If the target is Large or smaller, it 
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or have 
the Prone condition. 


Withdraw (Cost: 146). Immediately after the at- 
tack, you move up to half your Speed without pro- 
voking Opportunity Attacks. 


LEvEL 5: UNCANNY DODGE 

When an attacker that you can see hits you with an 
attack roll, you can take a Reaction to halve the at- 
tack’s damage against you (round down). 


LEVEL 7: EVASION 

You can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain 
dangers. When you're subjected to an effect that 
allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take 
only half damage, you instead take no damage if 
you succeed on the saving throw and only half dam- 
age if you fail. You can't use this feature if you have 
the Incapacitated condition. 


LEVEL 7: RELIABLE TALENT 
Whenever you make an ability check that uses one 


of your skill or tool proficiencies, you can treat a 
d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10. 


LEVEL 11: IMPROVED CUNNING STRIKE 

You can use up to two Cunning Strike effects when 
you deal Sneak Attack damage, paying the die cost 
for each effect. 


LEVEL 14: DEVIOUS STRIKES 

You've practiced new ways to use your Sneak At- 
tack deviously. The following effects are now among 
your Cunning Strike options. 

Daze (Cost: 2d6). The target must succeed ona 
Constitution saving throw, or on its next turn, it 
can do only one of the following: move or take an 
action or a Bonus Action. 


Knock Out (Cost: 6d6). The target must succeed on 
a Constitution saving throw, or it has the Uncon- 
scious condition for 1 minute or until it takes any 
damage. The Unconscious target repeats the save 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on 
itself on a success. 

Obscure (Cost: 3d6). The target must succeed on a 
Dexterity saving throw, or it has the Blinded condi- 
tion until the end of its next turn. 


LEVEL 15: SLIPPERY MIND 


Your cunning mind is exceptionally difficult to con- 


trol. You gain proficiency in Wisdom and Charisma 
saving throws. 


LEVEL 18: ELUSIVE 
You're so evasive that attackers rarely gain the 
upper hand against you. No attack roll can have 


Advantage against you unless you have the Incapac- 
itated condition. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of the Night Spirit is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: STROKE OF LUCK 
You have a marvelous knack for succeeding when 


you need to. If you fail a D20 Test, you can turn the 
roll into a 20. 


Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. 


ROGUE SUBCLASSES 


A Rogue subclass is a specialization that grants you 
features at certain Rogue levels, as specified in the 
subclass. This section presents the Arcane Trickster, 
Assassin, Soulknife, and Thief subclasses. 


ARCANE TRICKSTER 
Enhance Stealth with Arcane Spells 


Some Rogues enhance their fine-honed skills of 
stealth and agility with spells, learning magical 
tricks to aid them in their trade. Some Arcane 
Tricksters use their talents as pickpockets and bur- 
glars, while others are pranksters. 


LEVEL 3: SPELLCASTING 

You have learned to cast spells. See chapter 7 for 

the rules on spellcasting. The information below 

\ details how you use those rules as an Arcane 
Trickster. 
/  Cantrips. You know three cantrips: Mage 
2 Hand and two other cantrips of your choice 
from the Wizard spell list (see that class's sec- 
tion for its list). Mind Sliver and Minor Illusion are 
recommended. 

Whenever you gain a Rogue level, you can replace 
one of your cantrips, except Mage Hand, with an- 
other Wizard cantrip of your choice. 

When you reach Rogue level 10, you learn another 
Wizard cantrip of your choice. 

Spell Slots. The Arcane Trickster Spellcasting 
table shows how many spell slots you have to cast 
your level 1+ spells. You regain all expended spell 
slots when you finish a Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1* spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To start, choose three level 1 Wizard 
spells. Charm Person, Disguise Self, and Fog Cloud are 
recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Rogue levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Arcane Trickster Spellcasting table. 
Whenever that number increases, choose additional 
Wizard spells until the number of spells on your 
list matches the number in the Arcane Trickster 
Spellcasting table. The chosen spells must be of a 
level for which you have spell slots. For example, if 
you're a level 7 Rogue, your list of prepared spells 
can include five Wizard spells of level 1 or 2 in any 
combination. 


ARCANE TRICKSTER 
“SUBCLASS — 


ARCANE TRICKSTER SPELLCASTING 


Rogue Prepared — Spell Slots per Spell Level — 

Level Spells 1 2 3 4 
3 3 2 == — = 
4 4 3 — — — 
5 4 3 = — — 
6 4 3 = = — 
7 5 4 2 — — 
8 6 4 2 — — 
9 6 4 2 — — 
10 7 4 3 — — 
11 8 4 3 — — 
12 8 4 3 — — 
13 9 4 3 2 — 
14 10 4 3 2 — 
15 10 4 3 2 — 
16 11 4 3 3 — 
17 11 4 3 3 == 
18 11 4 3 3 — 
19 12 4 3 3 1 
20 13 4 3 3 1 


Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
gain a Rogue level, you can replace one spell on your 
list with another Wizard spell for which you have 
spell slots. 

Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your spellcast- 
ing ability for your Wizard spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus 
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells. 


LEVEL 3: MAGE HAND LEGERDEMAIN 
When you cast Mage Hand, you can cast it as a 
Bonus Action, and you can make the spectral hand 
Invisible. You can control the hand as a Bonus 
Action, and through it, you can make Dexterity 
(Sleight of Hand) checks. 


LEVEL 9: MAGICAL AMBUSH 
If you have the Invisible condition when you cast 
a spell on a creature, it has Disadvantage on any 


saving throw it makes against the spell on the same 
turn. 


LEVEL 13: VERSATILE TRICKSTER 

You gain the ability to distract targets with your 
Mage Hand. When you use the Trip option of your 
Cunning Strike on a creature, you can also use that 


option on another creature within 5 feet of the 
spectral hand. 


LEVEL 17: SPELL THIEF 
You gain the ability to magically steal the knowl- 
edge of how to cast a spell from another spellcaster. 
Immediately after a creature casts a spell that 
targets you or includes you in its area of effect, you 
can take a Reaction to force the creature to make an 
Intelligence saving throw. The DC equals your spell 
save DC. On a failed save, you negate the spell's ef- 
fect against you, and you steal the knowledge of the 
spell if it is at least level 1 and of a level you can cast 
(it doesn't need to be a Wizard spell). For the next 
8 hours, you have the spell prepared. The creature 
can't cast it until the 8 hours have passed. 
Once you steal a spell with this feature, you can't 
use this feature again until you finish a Long Rest. 


ASSASSIN _ T — 
Practice the Grim Art of Death 

An Assassin's training focuses on using stealth, 
poison, and disguise to eliminate foes with deadly 
efficiency. While some Rogues who follow this path 
are hired killers, spies, or bounty hunters, the capa- 
bilities of this subclass are equally useful for adven- 
turers facing a variety of monstrous enemies. 


LEVEL 3: ASSASSINATE 
You're adept at ambushing a target, granting you 


the following benefits. 
Initiative. You have Advantage on Initiative rolls. 


Surprising Strikes. During the first round of each 
combat, you have Advantage on attack rolls against 
any creature that hasn't taken a turn. If your Sneak 
Attack hits any target during that round, the target 
takes extra damage of the weapon's type equal to 
your Rogue level. 


LEVEL 3: ASSASSIN’S TOOLS 
You gain a Disguise Kit and a Poisoner's Kit, and 
you have proficiency with them. 


LEVEL 9: INFILTRATION EXPERTISE 
You are expert at the following techniques that aid 
your infiltrations. 

Masterful Mimicry. You can unerringly mimic an- 
other person's speech, handwriting, or both if you 
have spent at least 1 hour studying them. 

Roving Aim. Your Speed isn't reduced to O by 
using Steady Aim. 


LEVEL 13: ENVENOM WEAPONS 

When you use the Poison option of your Cunning 
Strike, the target also takes 2d6 Poison damage 
whenever it fails the saving throw. This damage 
ignores Resistance to Poison damage. 


LEVEL 17: DEATH STRIKE 

When you hit with your Sneak Attack on the first 
round of a combat, the target must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexter- 
ity modifier and Proficiency Bonus), or the attack's 
damage is doubled against the target. 


SOULE NIFE | 
Strike Foes with Psionic Blades 


A Soulknife strikes with the mind, cutting through 
barriers both physical and psychic. These Rogues 
discover psionic power within themselves and 
channel it to do their roguish work. As a Soulknife, 
your psionic abilities might have haunted you since 
childhood, revealing their full potential only as you 
experienced the stress of adventure. Or you might 
have sought out an order of psychic adepts and 
spent years learning how to manifest your power. 


LEVEL 3: PSIONIC POWER 

You harbor a wellspring of psionic energy within 
yourself. It is represented by your Psionic Energy 
Dice, which fuel certain powers you have from this 
subclass. The Soulknife Energy Dice table shows the 
number of these dice you have when you reach cer- 
tain Rogue levels, and the table shows the die size. 


SOULKNIFE ENERGY DICE 


Rogue Level Die Size Number 
3 D6 4 
5 08 6 
9 08 8 
11 D10 8 
13 D10 10 
17 D12 12 


Any features in this subclass that use a Psionic En- 
ergy Die use only the dice from this subclass. Some 
of your powers expend a Psionic Energy Die, as 
specified in a power's description, and you can't use 
a power if it requires you to use a die when your 
Psionic Energy Dice are all expended. 

You regain one of your expended Psionic 
Energy Dice when you finish a Short Rest, and 
you regain all of them when you finish a Long 
Rest. 

Psi-Bolstered Knack. If you fail an ability check us- 
ing a skill or tool with which you have proficiency, 
you can roll one Psionic Energy Die and add the 
number rolled to the check, potentially turning fail- 
ure into success. The die is expended only if the roll 
then succeeds. 

Psychic Whispers. You can establish telepathic 
communication between yourself and others. As 
a Magic action, choose one or more creatures you 
can see, up to a number of creatures equal to your 
Proficiency Bonus, and then roll one Psionic Energy 
Die. For a number of hours equal to the number 


rolled, the chosen creatures can speak telepathically 
with you, and you can speak telepathically with 
them. To send or receive a message (no action re- 
quired), you and the other creature must be within 1 


SOULKNIFE 


Suscrass 


mile of each other. A creature can end the telepathic 
connection at any time (no action required). 

The first time you use this power after each Long 
Rest, you don't expend the Psionic Energy Die. All 
other times you use the power, you expend the die. 


LEVEL 3: PSYCHIC BLADES 
You can manifest shimmering blades of psychic en- 
ergy. Whenever you take the Attack action or make 
an Opportunity Attack, you can manifest a Psychic 
Blade in your free hand and make the attack with 
that blade. The magic blade has the following traits: 


Weapon Category: Simple Melee 

Damage on a Hit: 1d6 Psychic plus the ability modifier 
used for the attack roll 

Properties: Finesse, Thrown (range 60/120 feet) 

Mastery: Vex (you can use this property, and it doesn't 
count against the number of properties you can use 


with Weapon Mastery) 


The blade vanishes immediately after it hits or 
misses its target, and it leaves no mark if it deals 
damage. 

After you attack with the blade on your turn, you 
can make a melee or ranged attack with a second 
psychic blade as a Bonus Action on the same turn if 
your other hand is free to create it. The damage die 
of this bonus attack is 1d4 instead of 1d6. 


LEVEL 9: SOUL BLADES 
You can now use the following powers with your 
Psychic Blades. 

Homing Strikes. If you make an attack roll with 
your Psychic Blade and miss the target, you can roll 
one Psionic Energy Die and add the number rolled 
to the attack roll. If this causes the attack to hit, the 


die is expended. 


Psychic Teleportation. As a Bonus Action, you 
manifest a Psychic Blade, expend one Psionic En- 
ergy Die and roll it, and throw the blade at an un- 
occupied space you can see up to a number of feet 
away equal to 10 times the number rolled. You then 
teleport to that space, and the blade vanishes. 


LEVEL 13: PSYCHIC VEIL 
You can weave a veil of psychic static to mask your- 
self. As a Magic action, you gain the Invisible con- 
dition for 1 hour or until you dismiss this effect (no 
action required). This invisibility ends early imme- 
diately after you deal damage to a creature or you 
force a creature to make a saving throw. 

Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a 
Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore 


your use of it. 


LEVEL 17: REND MIND 

You can sweep your Psychic Blades through a crea- 
ture’s mind. When you use your Psychic Blades to 
deal Sneak Attack damage to a creature, you can 
force that target to make a Wisdom saving throw 
(DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency 
Bonus). If the save fails, the target has the Stunned 
condition for 1 minute. The Stunned target repeats 
the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
effect on itself on a success. 

Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend three 
Psionic Energy Dice (no action required) to restore 
your use of it. 


THIEF 
—- > a зт ————..__ 
Hunt for Treasure as a Classic Adventurer 


A mix of burglar, treasure hunter, and explorer, you 
are the epitome of an adventurer. In addition to im- 
proving your agility and stealth, you gain abilities 
useful for delving into ruins and getting maximum 
benefit from the magic items you find there. 


LEVEL 3: FAST HANDS 
As a Bonus Action, you can do one of the following. 
Sleight of Hand. Make a Dexterity (Sleight of 
Hand) check to pick a lock or disarm a trap with 
Thieves' Tools or to pick a pocket. 
Use an Object. Take the Utilize action, or take the 
Magic action to use a magic item that requires that 
action. 


LEVEL 3: SECOND-STORY WORK 
You've trained to get into especially hard-to-reach 
places, granting you these benefits. 

Climber. You gain a Climb Speed equal to your 
Speed. 

Jumper. You can determine your jump distance 
using your Dexterity rather than your Strength. 


LEVEL 9: SUPREME SNEAK 

You gain the following Cunning Strike option. 
Stealth Attack (Cost: 1d6). If you have the Hide 

action's Invisible condition, this attack doesn't end 

that condition on you if you end the turn behind 

Three-Quarters Cover or Total Cover. 


LEVEL 13: Use MAGIC DEVICE 
You've learned how to maximize use of magic items, 
granting you the following benefits. 

Attunement. You can attune to up to four magic 
items at once. 

Charges. Whenever you use a magic item property 
that expends charges, roll 146. On a roll of 6, you 
use the property without expending the charges. 

Scrolls. You can use any Spell Scroll, using Intelli- 
gence as your spellcasting ability for the spell. If the 
spell is a cantrip or a level 1 spell, you can cast it re- 
liably. If the scroll contains a higher-level spell, you 
must first succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana) check 
(DC 10 plus the spell's level). On a successful check, 
you cast the spell from the scroll. On a failed check, 
the scroll disintegrates. 


LEVEL 17: THIEF’S REFLEXES 

You are adept at laying ambushes and quickly es- 
caping danger. You can take two turns during the 
first round of any combat. You take your first turn 
at your normal Initiative and your second turn at 
your Initiative minus 10. 


THier 


Susciass 


— —— m 
v 


caretes 


Se 


ый 


EVYN FONG 


| 
| 
| 


d 


CoRE SORCERER TRAITS 
Primary Ability 
Hit Point Die 


Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 


Skill Proficiencies 


Charisma 
D6 per Sorcerer level 
Constitution and Charisma 


Choose 2: Arcana, Deception, 
Insight, Intimidation, Persua- 
sion, or Religion 

Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons 
None 


Choose A or B: (A) Spear, 
2 Daggers, Arcane Focus 
(crystal), Dungeoneer’s Pack, 
and 28 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


Armor Training 
Starting Equipment 


7 ORCERERS WIELD INNATE MAGIC THAT IS 
Ч stamped into their being. Some Sorcerers can't 
D name the origin of their power, while others 
trace it to strange events in their personal or family 
history. The blessing of a dragon or a dryad at a 
baby's birth or the strike of lightning from a clear 
sky might spark a Sorcerer's gift. So too might the 
gift of a deity, exposure to the strange magic of 
another plane of existence, or a glimpse into the 
inner workings of reality. Whatever the origin, 
the result is an indelible mark on the Sorcerer, a 
churning magic that can be passed down through 
generations. 

Sorcerers don't learn magic; the raw, roiling 
power of magic is part of them. The essential art of 
a Sorcerer is learning to harness and channel that 
innate magic, allowing the Sorcerer to discover new 
and staggering ways to unleash their power. As Sor- 
cerers master their innate magic, they grow more 
attuned to its origin, developing distinct powers 
that reflect its source. 

Sorcerers are rare. Some family lines produce 
exactly one Sorcerer in every generation, but most 
of the time, the talents of sorcery appear as a fluke. 
People who have this magical power soon discover 
that it doesn't like to stay quiet. A Sorcerer's magic 
wants to be wielded. 


х= — Ó" 


BECOMING A SORCERER ... 


As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 


* Gain all the traits in the Core Sorcerer Traits 
table. 


* Gain the Sorcerer's level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Sorcerer Features table. 


AS 4 MULTICLASS CHARACTER 


- Gain the Hit Point Die from the Core Sorcerer 
Traits table. 


* Gain the Sorcerer's level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Sorcerer Features table. See the mul- 
ticlassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your 
available spell slots. 


SORCERER CLASS FEATURES 


As a Sorcerer, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Sorcerer levels. These 
features are listed in the Sorcerer Features table. 


LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING 

Drawing from your innate magic, you can cast 
spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. 
The information below details how you use those 
rules with Sorcerer spells, which appear in the Sor- 
cerer spell list later in the class’s description. 

Cantrips. You know four Sorcerer cantrips of 
your choice. Light, Prestidigitation, Shocking Grasp, 
and Sorcerous Burst are recommended. Whenever 
you gain a Sorcerer level, you can replace one of 
your cantrips from this feature with another Sor- 
cerer cantrip of your choice. 

When you reach Sorcerer levels 4 and 10, you 
learn another Sorcerer cantrip of your choice, as 
shown in the Cantrips column of the Sorcerer Fea- 
tures table. 

Spell Slots. The Sorcerer Features table shows 
how many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ 
spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish 
a Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list 
of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast 
with this feature. To start, choose two level 1 Sor- 
cerer spells. Burning Hands and Detect Magic are 
recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as 
you gain Sorcerer levels, as shown in the Prepared 
Spells column of the Sorcerer Features table. 
Whenever that number increases, choose additional 


CUA DTRD 2 Í CLUAN AATTrEN AIl LANTA 


SORCERER FEATURES Spell Slots per Spell Level 


s Prepared 
Level jn Class Features pes Cantrips Spells 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 B 
1 42 Spellcasting, = 4 2 ee cep m ont Ug фаз ашкы 
Innate Sorcery 
2 +2 Font of Magic, 2 4 4 WO oe mem uocis ee a эшда 
Metamagic 
+2 Sorcerer Subclass 4 6 4Ф- Б еган т=з Rum a ша, i 
4 +2 Ability Score 4 7 WE NL SS Se ae шэ ез 
Improvement 
5 +3 Sorcerous 5 5 9 4 3 2 = — = = — — 
Restoration 
6 +3 Subclass feature 6 5 10 3 3 — — — — ~ ~ 
+3 Sorcery Incarnate 7 5 n 3 3 1 — — — — — 
8 +3 Ability Score 8 5 12 4 3 3 2 — — — — — 
j Improvement 
| | 9 +4 — 9 5 14 4 3 3 3 1 = — = — 
| | 10 +4 Metamagic 10 6 15 4 3 3 3 2 — — —-— 
| n +4 — 1 6 16 #087 3 @ Yo — #4 
| 12 +4 Ability Score 12 6 16 4 3 3 3 2 1—— — 
Improvement 
I 13 " ST 13 6 7 T 3x 35 2$ Y d* aes 
|! 14 +5 Subclass feature 14 6 17 $ X $ $ 21 1 -— 
j 15 5 == 15 6 18 à 3 3321 1 how 
| | 16 +5 Ability Score 16 6 18 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 — 
|| 1тргоуетепї 
ili 17 +6 Metamagic 7 6 Bo 45353211 © 4 
| | 18 +6 Subclass feature 18 6 20 4 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 ] 
| 19 +6 Epic Boon 19 6 21 4 3 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 
| 20 +6 Arcane Apotheosis 20 6 22 433 3 3 221 1 
| р 
| Sorcerer spells until the number of spells on your LEVEL l: INNATE SORCERY 
| list matches the number in the Sorcerer Features An event in your past left an indelible mark on you, 
i table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which infusing you with simmering magic. As a Bonus 
| you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Action, you can unleash that magic for 1 minute, 
Sorcerer, your list of prepared spells can include six during which you gain the following benefits: 


Sorcerer spells of level 1 or 2 in any combination. 
If another Sorcerer feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don't count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Sorcerer spells for you. You can use this feature twice, and you regain all 
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you expended uses of it when you finish a Long Rest. 
gain a Sorcerer level, you can replace one spell on 
your list with another Sorcerer spell for which you 
have spell slots. 
Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is your spellcasting 
ability for your Sorcerer spells. 
Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus 
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Sorcerer spells. 


* The spell save DC of your Sorcerer spells 
increases by 1. 

* You have Advantage on the attack rolls of 
Sorcerer spells you cast. 


LEVEL 2: FONT OF MAGIC 

You can tap into the wellspring of magic within 
yourself. This wellspring is represented by Sorcery 
Points, which allow you to create a variety of magi- 
cal effects. 


14.0 CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


ШЕ 


You have 2 Sorcery Points, and you gain more as 
you reach higher levels, as shown in the Sorcery 
Points column of the Sorcerer Features table. You 
can't have more Sorcery Points than the number 
shown in the table for your level. You regain all ex- 
pended Sorcery Points when you finish a Long Rest. 

You can use your Sorcery Points to fuel the 
options below, along with other features, such as 
Metamagic, that use those points. 

Converting Spell Slots to Sorcery Points. You can 
expend a spell slot to gain a number of Sorcery 
Points equal to the slot's level (no action required). 

Creating Spell Slots. As a Bonus Action, you can 
transform unexpended Sorcery Points into one spell 
slot. The Creating Spell Slots table shows the cost 
of creating a spell slot of a given level, and it lists 
the minimum Sorcerer level you must be to create 
a slot. You can create a spell slot no higher than 
level 5. 

Any spell slot you create with this feature van- 
ishes when you finish a Long Rest. 


CREATING SPELL SLOTS 


Spell Slot Sorcery Point Min. Sorcerer 
Level Cost Level 
1 2 2 
2 3 3 
3 5 5 
4 6 7 
5 7 9 


LEVEL 2: METAMAGIC 

Because your magic flows from within, you can 
alter your spells to suit your needs; you gain two 
Metamagic options of your choice from “Meta- 
magic Options” later in this class's description. You 
use the chosen options to temporarily modify spells 
you cast. To use an option, you must spend the num- 
ber of Sorcery Points that it costs. 

You can use only one Metamagic option on a spell 
when you cast it unless otherwise noted in one of 
those options. 

Whenever you gain a Sorcerer level, you can re- 
place one of your Metamagic options with one you 
don’t know. You gain two more options at Sorcerer 
level 10 and two more at Sorcerer level 17. 


LEVEL 3: SORCERER SUBCLASS 

You gain a Sorcerer subclass of your choice. The 
Aberrant Sorcery, Clockwork Sorcery, Draconic 
Sorcery, and Wild Magic Sorcery subclasses are 
detailed after this class's description. A subclass is 

a specialization that grants you features at certain 
Sorcerer levels. For the rest of your career, you gain 
each of your subclass's features that are of your 
Sorcerer level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 


you qualify. You gain this feature again at Sorcerer 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: SORCEROUS RESTORATION 

When you finish a Short Rest, you can regain ex- 
pended Sorcery Points, but no more than a number 
equal to half your Sorcerer level (round down). 
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again un- 
til you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 7: SORCERY INCARNATE 
If you have no uses of Innate Sorcery left, you can 


use it if you spend 2 Sorcery Points when you take 
the Bonus Action to activate it. 


In addition, while your Innate Sorcery feature is 
active, you can use up to two of your Metamagic 
options on each spell you cast. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 


You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: ARCANE APOTHEOSIS 

While your Innate Sorcery feature is active, you 
can use one Metamagic option on each of your 
turns without spending Sorcery Points on it. 


METAMAGIC OPTIONS 


The following options are available to your Meta- 


magic feature. The options are presented in alpha- 
betical order. 


CAREFUL SPELL 
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 


When you cast a spell that forces other creatures 

to make a saving throw, you can protect some of 
those creatures from the spell's full force. To do so, 
spend 1 Sorcery Point and choose a number of those 
creatures up to your Charisma modifier (minimum 
of one creature). A chosen creature automatically 
succeeds on its saving throw against the spell, and it 
takes no damage if it would normally take half dam- 
age on a successful save. 


DisTANT SPELL 
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 


When you cast a spell that has a range of at least 5 
feet, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to double the 
spell's range. Or when you cast a spell that has a 
range of Touch, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to 
make the spell's range 30 feet. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


141 


n————— ани 


142 . 


EMPOWERED SPELL 
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 


When you roll damage for a spell, you can spend 1 
Sorcery Point to reroll a number of the damage dice 
up to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one), 
and you must use the new rolls. 

You can use Empowered Spell even if you've al- 
ready used a different Metamagic option during the 
casting of the spell. 


EXTENDED SPELL 
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 


When you cast a spell that has a duration of 1 min- 
ute or longer, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to dou- 


ble its duration to a maximum duration of 24 hours. 


If the affected spell requires Concentration, you 
have Advantage on any saving throw you make to 
maintain that Concentration. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


HEIGHTENED SPELL 

Cost: 2 Sorcery Points 

When you cast a spell that forces a creature to 
make a saving throw, you can spend 2 Sorcery 
Points to give one target of the spell Disadvantage 
on saves against the spell. 


QUICKENED SPELL 

Cost: 2 Sorcery Points 

When you cast a spell that has a casting time of an 
action, you can spend 2 Sorcery Points to change 
the casting time to a Bonus Action for this casting. 
You can't modify a spell in this way if you've already 
cast a level 1+ spell on the current turn, nor can you 
cast a level 1+ spell on this turn after modifying a 
spell in this way. 


SEEKING SPELL 
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 
If you make an attack roll for a spell and miss, you 
can spend 1 Sorcery Point to reroll the d20, and you 
must use the new roll. 

You can use Seeking Spell even if you've already 
used a different Metamagic option during the cast- 
ing of the spell. 


SUBTLE SPELL 

Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 

When you cast a spell, you can spend 1 Sorcery 
Point to cast it without any Verbal, Somatic, or Ma- 
terial components, except Material components that 
are consumed by the spell or that have a cost speci- 
fied in the spell. 


TRANSMUTED SPELL 

Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 

When you cast a spell that deals a type of damage 
from the following list, you can spend 1 Sorcery 
Point to change that damage type to one of the 
other listed types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poi- 
son, Thunder. 


TWINNED SPELL 
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point 


When you cast a spell, such as Charm Person, that 
can be cast with a higher-level spell slot to target an 
additional creature, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point 
to increase the spell’s effective level by 1. 


SORCERER SPELL LIST 


This section presents the Sorcerer spell list. The 
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha- 
betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed. 

In the Special column, C means the spell requires 
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it 
requires a specific Material component. 


илл 


САМТЕ!Р5 (LEVEL О SORCERER SPELLS) 


Spell 

Acid Splash 
Blade Ward 
Chill Touch 


Dancing Lights 


Elementalism 
Fire Bolt 
Friends 

Light 

Mage Hand 
Mending 
Message 
Mind Sliver 
Minor Illusion 


Poison Spray 


Prestidigitation 


Ray of Frost 


Shocking Grasp 


Sorcerous Burst 


Thunderclap 
True Strike 


School 
Evocation 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Illusion 
Transmutation 
Evocation 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Enchantment 
Illusion 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 
Evocation 
Evocation 
Evocation 
Evocation 


Divination 


LEVEL 1 SORCERER SPELLS 


Spell 

Burning Hands 
Charm Person 
Chromatic Orb 
Color Spray 


Comprehend Languages 


Detect Magic 
Disguise Self 


Expeditious Retreat 


False Life 
Feather Fall 
Fog Cloud 
Grease 

Ice Knife 
Jump 

Mage Armor 
Magic Missile 
Ray of Sickness 
Shield 

Silent Image 
Sleep 


School 
Evocation 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Illusion 
Divination 
Divination 
Illusion 
Transmutation 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Abjuration 
Evocation 
Necromancy 
Abjuration 
Illusion 


Enchantment 


Special 


С 


С 


Special 


Spell 
Thunderwave 
Witch Bolt 


Spell 
Alter Self 
Arcane Vigor 


Blindness/Deafness 


Blur 
Cloud of Daggers 


Crown of Madness 


Darkness 
Darkvision 
Detect Thoughts 
Dragon's Breath 
Enhance Ability 
Enlarge/Reduce 
Flame Blade 
Flaming Sphere 
Gust of Wind 
Hold Person 
Invisibility 
Knock 

Levitate 

Magic Weapon 
Mind Spike 
Mirror Image 
Misty Step 


Phantasmal Force 


Scorching Ray 
See Invisibility 
Shatter 
Spider Climb 
Suggestion 
Web 


Spell 

Blink 
Clairvoyance 
Counterspell 
Daylight 
Dispel Magic 
Fear 


CHAPTER 3| CHARACTER CLASSES 


School 
Evocation 


Evocation 


LEVEL 2 SORCERER SPELLS 


School 
Transmutation 
Abjuration 
Transmutation 
Illusion 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Evocation 
Evocation 
Evocation 
Enchantment 
Illusion 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Illusion 
Conjuration 
Illusion 
Evocation 
Divination 
Evocation 
Transmutation 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 


LEVEL 3 SORCERER SPELLS 


School 
Transmutation 
Divination 
Abjuration 
Evocation 
Abjuration 


Illusion 


Special 


Cc 


Special 


id joel pure loeseneeeenaleesei1g 


eO Cy. ТУ 


Special 
C, M 


C 


TAQ 


144, — 


Spell 

Fireball 

Fly 

Gaseous Form 


Haste 
Hypnotic Pattern 
Lightning Bolt 
Major Image 
Protection from Energy 
Sleet Storm 

Slow 

Stinking Cloud 
Tongues 
Vampiric Touch 
Water Breathing 
Water Walk 


School 
Evocation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Illusion 
Evocation 
Illusion 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 
Divination 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 


LEVEL 4 SoRCERER SPELLS 


Spell 
Banishment 
Blight 

Charm Monster 
Confusion 
Dimension Door 
Dominate Beast 
Fire Shield 
Greater Invisibility 
Ice Storm 
Polymorph 
Stoneskin 
Vitriolic Sphere 
Wall of Fire 


School 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Illusion 
Evocation 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Evocation 
Evocation 


LEVEL 5 SORCERER SPELLS 


Spell 

Animate Objects 
Bigby's Hand 
Cloudkill 

Cone of Cold 
Creation 
Dominate Person 


- Hold Monster 


Insect Plague 
Seeming 
Synaptic Static 


School 
Transmutation 
Evocation 
Conjuration 
Evocation 
Illusion 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Illusion 
Enchantment 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


School 


Special Spell 
= Telekinesis Transmutation 
С Teleportation Circle Conjuration 
С Wall of Stone Evocation 
м LEVEL 6 SORCERER SPELLS 
Spell School 
c Arcane Gate Conjuration 
c Chain Lightning Evocation 
c Circle of Death Necromancy 
c Disintegrate Transmutation 
c Eyebite Necromancy 
Flesh to Stone Transmutation 
Е Globe оў Invulnerability Abjuration 
R Mass Suggestion Enchantment 
R Move Earth Transmutation 
Otiluke's Freezing Sphere Evocation 
Sunbeam Evocation 
Special True Seeing Divination 
ы LEVEL 7 SORCERER SPELLS 
u Spell School 
C Delayed Blast Fireball Evocation 
_ Etherealness Conjuration 
с Finger of Death Necromancy 
- Fire Storm Evocation 
C Plane Shift Conjuration 
e Prismatic Spray Evocation 
C Reverse Gravity Transmutation 
CM Teleport Conjuration 
un LEVEL 8 SORCERER SPELLS 
c Spell School 
Demiplane Conjuration 
Special Dominate Monster Enchantment 
c Earthquake Transmutation 
C Incendiary Cloud Conjuration 
C Power Word Stun Enchantment 
= Sunburst Evocation 
25 LEVEL 9 SORCERER SPELLS 
c Spell School 
c Gate Conjuration 
c Meteor Swarm Evocation 
y Power Word Kill Enchantment 
Ex Time Stop Transmutation 
Wish Conjuration 
tp 
-É Bm 


Special 
С 
M 
[e 


Special 
Є 


Special 
С 


M 


Special 


[e 
c 
[o 


Special 
C, M 


TONATIUS BUDE 


SORCERER SUBCLASSES 


A Sorcerer subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Sorcerer levels, as specified 
in the subclass. This section presents the Aberrant 
Sorcery, Clockwork Sorcery, Draconic Sorcery, and 
Wild Magic Sorcery subclasses. 


ABERRANT SORCERY 
Wield Unnatural Psionic Power 


An alien influence has wrapped its tendrils around 
your mind, giving you psionic power. You can now 
touch other minds with that power and alter the 
world around you. Will this power shine from you 
as a hopeful beacon to others? Or will you be a ter- 
ror to those who feel the stab of your mind? 

Perhaps a psychic wind from the Astral Plane 
carried psionic energy to you, or you were exposed 
to the Far Realm’s warping influence. Alternatively, 
you were implanted with a mind flayer tadpole, 
but your transformation into a mind flayer never 
occurred; now the tadpole’s psionic power is yours. 
However you acquired this power, your mind is 
aflame with it. 


LEVEL 3: PSIONIC SPELLS 

When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the 
Psionic Spells table, you thereafter always have the 
listed spells prepared. 


PsiONIC SPELLS 
Sorcerer Level Spells 


3 Arms of Hadar, Calm Emotions, 
Detect Thoughts, Dissonant Whis- 
pers, Mind Sliver 


Hunger of Hadar, Sending 


7 Evard’s Black Tentacles, 
Summon Aberration 


9 Rary's Telepathic Bond, Telekinesis 


LEVEL 3: TELEPATHIC SPEECH 

You can form a telepathic connection between your 
mind and the mind of another. As a Bonus Action, 
choose one creature you can see within 30 feet of 
yourself. You and the chosen creature can com- 
municate telepathically with each other while the 
two of you are within a number of miles of each 
other equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 
of 1 mile). To understand each other, you each must 
mentally use a language the other knows. 

The telepathic connection lasts for a number of 
minutes equal to your Sorcerer level. It ends early 
if you use this ability to form a connection with a 
different creature. 


ABERRANT 
Sorcery 
Susciass 


EN 


M 


146 


LEVEL 6: PSIONIC SORCERY - 
When you cast any level 1* spell from your Psionic 
Spells feature, you can cast it by expending a spell 
slot as normal or by spending a number of Sorcery 
Points equal to the spell's level. If you cast the spell 
using Sorcery Points, it requires no Verbal or So- 
matic components, and it requires no Material com- 
ponents unless they are consumed by the spell or 


have a cost specified in it. 


LEVEL 6: PSYCHIC DEFENSES 
You have Resistance to Psychic damage, and you 
have Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end 
the Charmed or Frightened condition. 


LEVEL 14: REVELATION IN FLESH 

You can unleash the aberrant truth hidden within 
yourself. As a Bonus Action, you can spend 1 Sor- 
cery Point or more to magically alter your body for 
10 minutes. For each Sorcery Point you spend, you 
gain one of the following benefits of your choice, 
the effects of which last until the alteration ends. 

Aquatic Adaptation. You gain a Swim Speed equal 
to twice your Speed, and you can breathe under- 
water. Gills grow from your neck or flare behind 
your ears, and your fingers become webbed or you 
grow wriggling cilia. 

Glistening Flight. You gain a Fly Speed equal to 
your Speed, and you can hover. As you fly, your skin 
glistens with mucus or otherworldly light. 

See the Invisible. You can see any Invisible crea- 
ture within 60 feet of yourself that isn't behind 
Total Cover. Your eyes also turn black or become 
writhing sensory tendrils. 

Wormlike Movement. Your body, along with any 
equipment you are wearing or carrying, becomes 
slimy and pliable. You can move through any space 
as narrow as 1 inch, and you can spend 5 feet of 
movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or 
the Grappled condition. 


LEVEL 18: WARPING IMPLOSION 
You can unleash a space-warping anomaly. As a 
Magic action, you teleport to an unoccupied space 
you can see within 120 feet of yourself. Immediately 
after you disappear, each creature within 30 feet 
of the space you left must make a Strength saving 
throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, 
a creature takes 3d10 Force damage and is pulled 
straight toward the space you left, ending in an un- 
occupied space as close to your former space as pos- 
sible. On a successful save, the creature takes half as 
much damage only. 

Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 5 Sor- 
cery Points (no action required) to restore your use 


of it. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


CLOCKWORK SORCERY Žž 


Channel Cosmic Forces of Order 

The cosmic force of order has suffused you with 
magic. That power arises from Mechanus or a realm 
like it—a plane of existence shaped entirely by clock- 
work efficiency. You or someone from your lineage 
might have become entangled in the machinations 
of modrons, the orderly beings who inhabit Mecha- 
nus. Perhaps your ancestor even took part in the 
Great Modron March. Whatever its origin within 
you, the power of order can seem strange to others, 
but for you, it’s part of a vast and glorious system. 


LEVEL 3: CLOCKWORK SPELLS 
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the 
Clockwork Spells table, you thereafter always have 


the listed spells prepared. 


CLOCKWORK SPELLS 
Sorcerer Level Spells 

3 Aid, Alarm, Lesser Restoration, 
Protection from Evil and Good 
Dispel Magic, Protection from Energy 
Freedom of Movement, Summon 
Construct 

9 Greater Restoration, Wall of Force 


In addition, consult the Manifestations of Order 
table and choose or randomly determine a way your 
connection to order manifests while you are casting 


any of your Sorcerer spells. 


MANIFESTATIONS OF ORDER 
1d6 Manifestation 

1 Spectral cogwheels hover behind you. 

2 The hands of a clock spin in your eyes. 

3 Your skin glows with a brassy sheen. 

4 Floating equations and geometric objects 
overlay your body. 

5 Your Spellcasting Focus temporarily takes the 
form of a Tiny clockwork mechanism. 

6 The ticking of gears or ringing of a clock can 
be heard by you and those affected by your 
magic. 


LEVEL 3: RESTORE BALANCE 

Your connection to the plane of absolute order 
allows you to equalize chaotic moments. When 

a creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself 
is about to roll a 420 with Advantage or Dis- 
advantage, you can take a Reaction to prevent 
the roll from being affected by Advantage and 
Disadvantage. 


You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), 
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a 


Long Rest. 


LEVEL 6: BASTION OF LAW 
You can tap into the grand equation of existence to 
imbue a creature with a shimmering shield of order. 
As a Magic action, you can expend 1 to 5 Sorcery 
Points to create a magical ward around yourself 
or another creature you can see within 30 feet of 
yourself. The ward is represented by a number of 
d8s equal to the number of Sorcery Points spent to 
create it. When the warded creature takes damage, 
it can expend a number of those dice, roll them, 
and reduce the damage taken by the total rolled on 
those dice. 

The ward lasts until you finish a Long Rest or un- 
til you use this feature again. 


LEVEL 14: TRANCE OF ORDER 

You gain the ability to align your consciousness 
with the endless calculations of Mechanus. As a 
Bonus Action, you can enter this state for 1 minute. 
For the duration, attack rolls against you can't ben- 
efit from Advantage, and whenever you make a D20 
Test, you can treat a roll of 9 or lower on the d20 as 
a 10. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 5 Sor- 
cery Points (no action required) to restore your use 
of it. 


LEVEL 18: CLOCKWORK CAVALCADE 

You momentarily summon spirits of order to ex- 
punge disorder around you. As a Magic action, you 
summon the spirits in a 50-foot Cube originating 
from you. The spirits look like modrons or other 
Constructs of your choice. The spirits are intangible 
and invulnerable, and they create the effects below 
within the Cube before vanishing. Once you use this 
action, you can't use it again until you finish a Long 
Rest unless you spend 7 Sorcery Points (no action 
required) to restore your use of it. 

Heal. The spirits restore up to 100 Hit Points, 
divided as you choose among any number of crea- 
tures of your choice in the Cube. 

Repair. Any damaged objects entirely in the Cube 
are repaired instantly. 

Dispel. Every spell of level 6 and lower ends on 
creatures and objects of your choice in the Cube. 


CLOCKWORK 
Sorcery 
Su8cLAsS 


DRACONIC 
Sorcery 
SuBCLASS 


93 
rct n 
N 


DRACONIC SORCERY _ 


Breathe the Magic of Dragons 

Your innate magic comes from the gift of a dragon. 
Perhaps an ancient dragon facing death bequeathed 
some of its magical power to you or your ancestor, 
You might have absorbed magic from a site infused 
with dragons’ power. Or perhaps you handled a 
treasure taken from a dragon’s hoard that was 
steeped in draconic power. Or you might have a 
dragon for an ancestor. 


LEVEL 3: DRACONIC RESILIENCE 
The magic in your body manifests physical traits 
of your draconic gift. Your Hit Point maximum 
increases by 3, and it increases by 1 whenever you 
gain another Sorcerer level. 

Parts of you are also covered by dragon-like 
scales. While you aren’t wearing armor, your base 
Armor Class equals 10 plus your Dexterity and Cha- 


risma modifiers. 


LEVEL 3: DRACONIC SPELLS 

When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the 
Draconic Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared. 


DRACONIC SPELLS 


Sorcerer Level Spells 
3 Alter Self, Chromatic Orb, Command, 
Dragon’s Breath 


Fear, Fly 
Arcane Eye, Charm Monster 


9 Legend Lore, Summon Dragon 


LEVEL 6: ELEMENTAL AFFINITY 

Your draconic magic has an affinity with a damage 
type associated with dragons. Choose one of those 
types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Poison. 

You have Resistance to that damage type, and 
when you cast a spell that deals damage of that 
type, you can add your Charisma modifier to one 
damage roll of that spell. 


LEVEL 14: DRAGON WINGS 

As a Bonus Action, you can cause draconic wings 

to appear on your back. The wings last for 1 hour or 
until you dismiss them (no action required). For the 
duration, you have a Fly Speed of 60 feet. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 3 Sor- 
cery Points (no action required) to restore your use 
of it. 


LEVEL i8: DRAGON COMPANION 

You can cast Summon Dragon without a Material 
component. You can also cast it once without a Spell 
slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in this way 
when you finish a Long Rest. 

Whenever you start casting the spell, you can 
modify it so that it doesn't require Concentration. If 
you do so, the spell's duration becomes 1 minute for 
that casting. 


WILD MAGIC SORCERY 
Unleash Chaotic Magic 


Your innate magic stems from the forces of chaos 
that underlie the order of creation. You or an 
ancestor might have endured exposure to raw 
magic, perhaps through a planar portal leading 
to Limbo or the Elemental Planes. Perhaps you 
were blessed by a fey being or marked by a de- 
mon. Or your magic could be a fluke with no 
apparent cause. Whatever its source, this magic 
churns within you, waiting for any outlet. 


LEVEL 3: WILD МАСІС SURGE 
Your spellcasting can unleash surges of untamed 
magic. Once per turn, you can roll 1d20 immedi- 
ately after you cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell slot. 
If you roll a 20, roll on the Wild Magic Surge table 
to create a magical effect. 

If the magical effect is a spell, it is too wild to be 
affected by your Metamagic. 


LEVEL 3: TIDES OF CHAOS 
You can manipulate chaos itself to give yourself 
Advantage on one D20 Test before you roll the а 99 
d20. Once you do so, you must cast a Sorcerer d | 
spell with a spell slot or finish а Long Rest be- sd. 
fore you can use this feature again. 

If you do cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell 
slot before you finish a Long Rest, you auto- 
matically roll on the Wild Magic Surge table. 


LEVEL 6: BEND Luck 

You have the ability to twist fate using your 
wild magic. Immediately after another creature 
you can see rolls the d20 for a D20 Test, you can 
take a Reaction and spend 1 Sorcery Point to roll 
1d4 and apply the number rolled as a bonus or 
penalty (your choice) to the d20 roll. 


LEVEL 14: CONTROLLED CHAOS 

You gain a modicum of control over the surges of 
your wild magic. Whenever you roll on the Wild 
Magic Surge table, you can roll twice and use ei- 
ther number. 


Wiro MaGic 
Sorcery 


Suscuass 


LEVEL 18: TAMED SURGE 1d100 Effect 


Immediately after you cast a Sorcerer spell with a 25-28 You are transported to the Astral Plane until 
spell slot, you can create an effect of your choice the end of your next turn. You then return 
from the Wild Magic Surge table instead of rolling to the space you previously occupied or the 
on that table. You can choose any effect in the table nearest unoccupied space if that space is 
except for the final row, and if the chosen effect in- acetal 
volves a roll, you must make it. | | TR 
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 29-32 The next time you casta spell that El s 
until you finish a Long Rest. damage within the next minute, don’t roll 
the spell's damage dice for the damage. In- 


stead use the highest number possible for 


WiLD MAGIC SURGE 
each damage die. 


1d100 Effect 
01-04 Roll on this table at the start of each of your 33-36 You have Resistance to all damage for the 
turns for the next minute, ignoring this re- next minute. 
sult on subsequent rolls. 37-40 You turn into a potted plant until the start 


of your next turn. While you're a plant, you 
have the Incapacitated condition and have 
Vulnerability to all damage. If you drop to 0 
Hit Points, your pot breaks, and your form 


05-08 А creature that is Friendly toward you ap- 
pears in a random unoccupied space within 
60 feet of you. The creature is under the 
DM's control and disappears 1 minute later. 


Roll 1d4 to determine the creature: on a reverts. 
1,5 Modron Duodrone:appearspona 2а 41-44 Forthe next minute, you can teleport up to 
Flumph appears; on a 3, a Modron Mono- 20 feet as a Bonus Action on each of your 
drone appears; on a 4, a Unicorn appears. Wine 
the Monster Manual for the creature's 
es iin Е 45-48 You and up to three creatures you choose 
Әле . Ix within 30 feet of you have the Invisible con- 
09—12 Ror the next'minúte; уоп терайй. 5 Hit Poiñts dition for 1 minute. This invisibility ends on 
ab thie start of eachief your tums: a creature immediately after it makes an at- 
13-16 Creatures have Disadvantage on saving tack roll, deals damage, or casts a spell. 
— е the ied spell TM e in the 49-52 А spectral shield hovers near you for the 
next minute that involves a saving throw. next minute, granting you a +2 bonus to AC 
17-20 You are subjected to an effect that lasts for and immunity to Magic Missile. 
1 mmute ааа 055 Iption says other: 53-56 You can take one extra action on this turn. 


wise. Roll 1d8 to determine the effect: on a 
1, you're surrounded by faint, ethereal music 
only you and creatures within 5 feet of you 
can hear; on a 2, your size increases by one 
Size category; on a 3, you grow a long beard 
made of feathers that remains until you 
sneeze, at which point the feathers explode 
from your face and vanish; on a 4, you must 
shout when you speak; on a 5, illusory but- 
terflies flutter in the air within 10 feet of you; 
on a 6, an eye appears on your forehead, 
granting you Advantage on Wisdom (Per- 
ception) checks; on an 7, pink bubbles float 
out of your mouth whenever you speak; on 
an 8, your skin turns a vibrant shade of blue 
for 24 hours or until the effect is ended by a 
Remove Curse spell. 


21-24 For the next minute, all your spells with a 
casting time of an action have a casting time 


of a Bonus Action. 


57-60 You cast a random spell. If the spell nor- 
mally requires Concentration, it doesn't 
require Concentration in this case; the 
spell lasts for its full duration. Roll 1d10 to 
determine the spell: on a 1, Confusion; on 
a 2, Fireball; on a 3, Fog Cloud; on a 4, Fly 
(cast on a random creature within 60 feet of 
you), on a 5, Grease; on a 6, Levitate (cast 
on yourself); on a 7, Magic Missile (cast as a 
level 5 spell); on an 8, Mirror Image; on a 9, 
Polymorph (cast on yourself), and if you fail 
the saving throw, you turn into a Goat (see 
appendix В); on a 10, See Invisibility. 

61-64 Forthe next minute, any flammable, non- 
magical object you touch that isn't being 
worn or carried by another creature bursts 
into flame, takes 1d4 Fire damage, and is 


burning. 


- 


2 io CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


If you die within the next hour, you immedi- 
ately revive as if by the Reincarnate spell. 
You have the Frightened condition until the 
end of your next turn. The DM determines 
the source of your fear. 

You teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied 
space you can see. 

A random creature within 60 feet of you has 
the Poisoned condition for 1d4 hours. 

You radiate Bright Light in a 30-foot radius 
for the next minute. Any creature that ends 
its turn within 5 feet of you has the Blinded 
condition until the end of its next turn. 


Up to three creatures of your choice that you 
can see within 30 feet of you take 1d10 Ne- 
crotic damage. You regain Hit Points equal 
to the sum of the Necrotic damage dealt. 


THe SORCERER DELINA 
MANIPUDAXER AVILD MAGIC 
ro CREATRSRDREOICTABLE 
woNDERSA 


Effect 


Up to three creatures of your choice that 
you can see within 30 feet of you take 4d10 
Lightning damage. 

You and all creatures within 30 feet of you 


have Vulnerability to Piercing damage for the 
next minute. 


Roll 1d6: On a 1, you regain 2d10 Hit Points; 
on a 2, one ally of your choice within 300 
feet of you regains 2d10 Hit Points; on a 3, 
you regain your lowest-level expended spell 
slot; on a 4, one ally of your choice within 
300 feet of you regains their lowest-level ex- 
pended spell slot; on a 5, you regain all your 


expended Sorcery Points; on a 6, all the ef- 
fects of row 17-20 affect you simultaneously. 


м, 
JY 

€ 2 
AS 2 


"EA ў, 


SS YS 


iN 


NESTOR OSSANDON LEAL 


E WARLOCK TRAITS 
Primary Ability Charisma 
Hit Point Die D8 per Warlock level 


Saving Throw Wisdom and Charisma 
Proficiencies 

Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Arcana, Deception, 
History, Intimidation, Investi- 
gation, Nature, or Religion 
Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons 


Armor Training 


Light armor 


Choose A or B: (A) Leather 
Armor, Sickle, 2 Daggers, 
Arcane Focus (orb), Book 
(occult lore), Scholar’s Pack, 
and 15 GP; or (B) 100 GP 


Starting Equipment 


ARLOCKS QUEST FOR KNOWLEDGE 

W that lies hidden in the fabric of the mul- 

| tiverse. They often begin their search for 
magical power by delving into tomes of forbidden 
lore, dabbling in invocations meant to attract the 
power of extraplanar beings, or seeking places of 
power where the influence of these beings can be 
felt. In no time, each Warlock is drawn into a bind- 
ing pact with a powerful patron. Drawing on the 
ancient knowledge of beings such as angels, archfey, 
demons, devils, hags, and alien entities of the Far 
Realm, Warlocks piece together arcane secrets to 
bolster their own power. 

Warlocks view their patrons as resources, as 

means to the end of achieving magical power. Some 


Warlocks respect, revere, or even love their patrons; 


some serve their patrons grudgingly; and some seek 
to undermine their patrons even as they wield the 
power their patrons have given them. 

Once a pact is made, a Warlock's thirst for knowl- 
edge and power can't be slaked with mere study. 
Most Warlocks spend their days pursuing greater 
power and deeper knowledge, which typically 
means some kind of adventure. 


BECOMING A WARLOCK .. 


As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits іп the Core Warlock Traits 
table. 

- Gain the Warlock's level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Warlock Features table. 


As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 


* Gain the following traits from the Core Warlock 


Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light 
armor. 


* Gain the Warlock's level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Warlock Features table. See the mul- 


ticlassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your 
available spell slots. 


WARLOCK CLASS FEATURES 


As a Warlock, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Warlock levels. These 
features are listed in the Warlock Features table. 


LEVEL 1: ELDRITCH INVOCATIONS 

You have unearthed Eldritch Invocations, pieces of 
forbidden knowledge that imbue you with an abid- 
ing magical ability or other lessons. You gain one 
invocation of your choice, such as Pact of the Tome. 
Invocations are described in the "Eldritch Invoca- 
tion Options" section later in this class's description. 

Prerequisites. If an invocation has a prerequisite, 
you must meet it to learn that invocation. For ex- 
ample, if an invocation requires you to be a level 5+ 
Warlock, you can select the invocation once you 
reach Warlock level 5. 

Replacing and Gaining Invocations. Whenever you 
gain a Warlock level, you can replace one of your 
invocations with another one for which you qualify. 
You can't replace an invocation if it's a prerequisite 
for another invocation that you have. 

When you gain certain Warlock levels, you gain 
more invocations of your choice, as shown in the 
Invocations column of the Warlock Features table. 

You can't pick the same invocation more than 
once unless its description says otherwise. 


LEVEL 1: РАСТ МАСІС 
Through occult ceremony, you have formed a pact 
with a mysterious entity to gain magical powers. 
The entity is a voice in the shadows—its identity i 
unclear—but its boon to you is concrete: the ability 
to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spell- 
casting. The information below details how you use 
those rules with Warlock spells, which appear in the 
Warlock spell list later in the class's description. 
Cantrips. You know two Warlock cantrips of your | 
choice. Eldritch Blast and Prestidigitation are recom- 
mended. Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you 
can replace one of your cantrips from this feature 
with another Warlock cantrip of your choice. 
When you reach Warlock levels 4 and 10, you 
learn another Warlock cantrip of your choice, as 
shown in the Cantrips column of the Warlock Fea- 
tures table. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 4 153 


1 77 LL” жони 


T 


aL OP EE See 


WARLOCK FEATURES 


Proficiency 

Level Bonus Class Features 

1 +2 Eldritch Invocations, Pact Magic 

2 +2 Magical Cunning 

3 +2 Warlock Subclass 

4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 

5 +3 — 

6 +3 Subclass feature 

7 +3 — 

8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 

9 +4 Contact Patron 

10 +4 Subclass feature 

1 +4 Mystic Arcanum (level 6 spell) 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 
13 +5 Mystic Arcanum (level 7 spell) 
14 +5 Subclass feature 
15 +5 Mystic Arcanum (level 8 spell) 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 
7 +6 Mystic Arcanum (level 9 spell) 
18 +6 — 
19 +6 Epic Boon 
20 +6 Eldritch Master 


Spell Slots. The Warlock Features table shows 
how many spell slots you have to cast your Warlock 
spells of levels 1-5. The table also shows the level 
of those slots, all of which are the same level. You 
regain all expended Pact Magic spell slots when you 
finish a Short or Long Rest. 

For example, when you're a level 5 Warlock, you 
have two level 3 spell slots. To cast the level 1 spell 
Witch Bolt, you must spend one of those slots, and 
you cast it as a level 3 spell. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To start, choose two level 1 Warlock 
spells. Charm Person and Hex are recommended. 

The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Warlock levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Warlock Features table. Whenever 
that number increases, choose additional War- 

lock spells until the number of spells on your list 
matches the number in the table. The chosen spells 
must be of a level no higher than what's shown in 
the table's Slot Level column for your level. When 

you reach level 6, for example, you learn a new War- 
lock spell, which can be of levels 1-5. 

If another Warlock feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don't count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


ee 


Eldritch Prepared Spell Slot 
Invocations Cantrips Spells Slots Level 
1 2 2 1 1 
3 2 3 2 1 
3 2 4 2 2 
3 3 5 2 2 
5 3 6 2 3 
5 3 7 2 3 
6 3 8 2 4 
6 3 9 2 4 
7 3 10 2 5 
7 4 10 2 5 
7 4 11 3 5 
8 4 11 3 5 
8 4 12 3 5 
8 4 12 3 5 
9 4 13 3 5 
9 4 13 3 5 
9 4 14 4 5 
10 4 14 4 5 
10 4 15 4 5 
10 4 15 4 5 


this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Warlock spells for you. 

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
gain a Warlock level, you can replace one spell on 
your list with another Warlock spell of an eligible 
level. 

Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is the spellcasting 
ability for your Warlock spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus 
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Warlock spells. 


LEVEL 2: MAGICAL CUNNING 

You can perform an esoteric rite for 1 minute. At the 
end of it, you regain expended Pact Magic spell slots 
but no more than a number equal to half your max- 
imum (round up). Once you use this feature, you 
can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 3: WARLOCK SUBCLASS 

You gain a Warlock subclass of your choice. The 
Archfey Patron, Celestial Patron, Fiend Patron, and 
Great Old One Patron subclasses are detailed after 
this class's description. A subclass is a specialization 
that grants you features at certain Warlock levels. 
For the rest of your career, you gain each of your 
subclass's features that are of your Warlock level or 
lower. 


LEVEL è: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Warlock 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 9: CONTACT PATRON 
In the past, you usually contacted your patron 
through intermediaries. Now you can communicate 
directly; you always have the Contact Other Plane 
spell prepared. With this feature, you can cast the 
spell without expending a spell slot to contact your 
patron, and you automatically succeed on the spell's 
saving throw. 

Once you cast the spell with this feature, you can't 
do so in this way again until you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 11: MYSTIC ARCANUM 

Your patron grants you a magical secret called an 
arcanum. Choose one level 6 Warlock spell as this 
arcanum. 

You can cast your arcanum spell once without ex- 
pending a spell slot, and you must finish a Long Rest 
before you can cast it in this way again. 

As shown in the Warlock Features table, you gain 
another Warlock spell of your choice that can be 
cast in this way when you reach Warlock levels 13 
(level 7 spell), 15 (level 8 spell), and 17 (level 9 spell). 
You regain all uses of your Mystic Arcanum when 
you finish a Long Rest. 

Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you can re- 
place one of your arcanum spells with another War- 
lock spell of the same level. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Fate is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: ELDRITCH MASTER 
When you use your Magical Cunning feature, you 
regain all your expended Pact Magic spell slots. 


ELDRITCH INVOCATION OPTIONS 


Eldritch Invocation options appear in alphabetical 


order. 


AGONIZING BLAST 
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip That 
Deals Damage 


Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that 
deals damage. You can add your Charisma modifier 
to that spell’s damage rolls. 

Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 
eligible cantrip. 


ARMOR OF SHADOWS 

You can cast Mage Armor on yourself without ex- 
pending a spell slot. 

ASCENDANT STEP 

Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock 

You can cast Levitate on yourself without expending 
a spell slot. 

Drvirs SIGHT 

Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock 


You can see normally in Dim Light and Darkness— 


both magical and nonmagical—within 120 feet of 
yourself. 


DEVOURING BLADE 
Prerequisite: Level 12+ Warlock, Thirsting Blade 
Invocation 


The Extra Attack of your Thirsting Blade invoca- 
tion confers two extra attacks rather than one. 


ELDRITCH MIND 


You have Advantage on Constitution saving throws 
that you make to maintain Concentration. 


ELDRITCH SMITE 

Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade 
Invocation 

Once per turn when you hit a creature with your 
pact weapon, you can expend a Pact Magic spell slot 
to deal an extra 1d8 Force damage to the target, plus 
another 1d8 per level of the spell slot, and you can 


give the target the Prone condition if it is Huge or 
smaller. 


ELDRITCH SPEAR 


Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip That 
Deals Damage 


Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that 
deals damage and has a range of 10+ feet. When you 
cast that spell, its range increases by a number of 
feet equal to 30 times your Warlock level. 

Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 
eligible cantrip. 


FIENDISH VIGOR 
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock 


You can cast False Life on yourself without expend- 
ing a spell slot. When you cast the spell with this 
feature, you don't roll the die for the Temporary Hit 


Points; you automatically get the highest number on 
the die. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


| 185 


рат OD TEES 


56 


GazE OF Two MINDS 
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock 

You can use a Bonus Action to touch a willing 
creature and perceive through its senses until the 
end of your next turn. As long as the creature is on 
the same plane of existence as you, you can take a 
Bonus Action on subsequent turns to maintain this 
connection, extending the duration until the end of 
your next turn. The connection ends if you don't 


maintain it in this way. 

While perceiving through the other creature's 
senses, you benefit from any special senses pos- 
sessed by that creature, and you can cast spells as if 
you were in your space or the other creature's space 
if the two of you are within 60 feet of each other. 


GIFT OF THE DEPTHS 
Prerequisite: Level 5» Warlock 
You can breathe underwater, and you gain a Swim 


Speed equal to your Speed. 
You can also cast Water Breathing once without 


expending a spell slot. You regain the ability to cast 
it in this way again when you finish a Long Rest. 


GiFT OF THE PROTECTORS 
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock, Pact of the Tome 
Invocation 
A new page appears in your Book of Shadows when 
you conjure it. With your permission, a creature 
can take an action to write its name on that page, 
which can contain a number of names equal to your 
Charisma modifier (minimum of one name). 

When any creature whose name is on the page 
is reduced to O Hit Points but not killed outright, 
the creature magically drops to 1 Hit Point instead. 
Once this magic is triggered, no creature can bene- 
fit from it until you finish a Long Rest. 

As a Magic action, you can erase a name on the 


page by touching it. 


INVESTMENT OF THE CHAIN MASTER 
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Chain 
Invocation 
When you cast Find Familiar, you infuse the sum- 
moned familiar with a measure of your eldritch 
power, granting the creature the following benefits. 
Aerial or Aquatic. The familiar gains either a Fly 
Speed or a Swim Speed (your choice) of 40 feet. 
Quick Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can com- 
mand the familiar to take the Attack action. 
Necrotic or Radiant Damage. Whenever the famil- 
iar deals Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage, 
you can make it deal Necrotic or Radiant damage 
instead. 
Your Save DC. If the familiar forces a creature to 
make a saving throw, it uses your spell save DC. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


Resistance. When the familiar takes damage, you 
can take a Reaction to grant it Resistance against 


that damage. 
LESSONS OF THE FIRST ONES 
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock 


You have received knowledge from an elder entity 
of the multiverse, allowing you to gain one Origin 


feat of your choice (see chapter 5). 
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 


Origin feat. 
LIFEDRINKER 
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade 


Invocation 

Once per turn when you hit a creature with your 
pact weapon, you can deal an extra 1d6 Necrotic, 
Psychic, or Radiant damage (your choice) to the 
creature, and you can expend one of your Hit Point 
Dice to roll it and regain a number of Hit Points 
equal to the roll plus your Constitution modifier 
(minimum of 1 Hit Point). 


MASK OF MANY FACES 
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock 


You can cast Disguise Self without expending a spell 
slot. 


MASTER OF MyRIAD FORMS 
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock 

You can cast Alter Self without expending a spell 
slot. 


MISTY VISIONS 

Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock 

You can cast Silent Image without expending a spell 
slot. 


ONE WITH SHADOWS 
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock 

While you're in an area of Dim Light or Darkness, 
you can cast Invisibility on yourself without expend- 
ing a spell slot. 


OTHERWORLDLY LEAP 

Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock 

You can cast Jump on yourself without expending a 
spell slot. 


PACT OF THE BLADE 

As a Bonus Action, you can conjure a pact weapon 
in your hand—a Simple or Martial Melee weapon of 
your choice with which you bond—or create a bond 
with a magic weapon you touch; you can't bond 
with a magic weapon if someone else is attuned to 
it or another Warlock is bonded with it. Until the 


E 


AND 


WAYNE ENCL 


/ 


bond ends, you have proficiency with the weapon, 
and you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus. 

Whenever you attack with the bonded weapon, 
you can use your Charisma modifier for the at- 
tack and damage rolls instead of using Strength or 
Dexterity; and you can cause the weapon to deal 
Necrotic, Psychic, or Radiant damage or its normal 
damage type. 

Your bond with the weapon ends if you use this 
feature's Bonus Action again, if the weapon is more 
than 5 feet away from you for 1 minute or more, or 
if you die. A conjured weapon disappears when the 
bond ends. 


PACT OF THE CHAIN 
You learn the Find Familiar spell and can cast it as a 
Magic action without expending a spell slot. 

When you cast the spell, you choose one of the 
normal forms for your familiar or one of the fol- 
lowing special forms: Imp, Pseudodragon, Qua- 
sit, Skeleton, Slaad Tadpole, Sphinx of Wonder, 
Sprite, or Venomous Snake (see appendix B for the 
familiar's stat block). 

Additionally, when you take the Attack action, 
you can forgo one of your own attacks to allow 
your familiar to make one attack of its own with its 
Reaction. 


PACT OF THE TOME 

Stitching together strands of shadow, you conjure 
forth a book in your hand at the end of a Short or 
Long Rest. This Book of Shadows (you determine its 
appearance) contains eldritch magic that only you 
can access, granting you the benefits below. The 
book disappears if you conjure another book with 
this feature or if you die. 

Cantrips and Rituals. When the book appears, 
choose three cantrips, and choose two level 1 spells 
that have the Ritual tag. The spells can be from any 
class's spell list, and they must be spells you don't 
already have prepared. While the book is on your 
person, you have the chosen spells prepared, and 
they function as Warlock spells for you. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use the book as a 
Spellcasting Focus. 


REPELLING BLAST 
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip That 
Deals Damage via an Attack Roll 


Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that 
requires an attack roll. When you hit a Large or 


smaller creature with that cantrip, you can push the 


creature up to 10 feet straight away from you. 
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 

than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 

eligible cantrip. 


THIRSTING BLADE 

Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade 
Invocation 

You gain the Extra Attack feature for your pact 
weapon only. With that feature, you can attack 


twice with the weapon instead of once when you 
take the Attack action on your turn. 


VISIONS OF DISTANT REALMS 
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock 


You can cast Arcane Eye without expending a spell 
slot. 


WHISPERS OF THE GRAVE 
Prerequisite: Level 7+ Warlock 


You can cast Speak with Dead without expending a 
spell slot. 


WITCH SIGHT 
Prerequisite: Level 15+ Warlock 


You have Truesight with a range of 30 feet. 


WARLOCK SPELL LIST 


This section presents the Warlock spell list. The 
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha- 
betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed. 

In the Special column, C means the spell requires 
Concentration, R means it’s a Ritual, and M means it 
requires a specific Material component. 


CANTRIPS (LEVEL O WARLOCK SPELLS) 


Spell School Special 
Blade Ward Abjuration (© 
Chill Touch Necromancy — 
Eldritch Blast Evocation — 
Friends Enchantment (e 
Mage Hand Conjuration — 
Mind Sliver Enchantment — 
Minor Illusion Illusion — 
Poison Spray Necromancy — 


Spell 
Prestidigitation 
Thunderclap 
Toll the Dead 
True Strike 


School 
Transmutation 
Evocation 
Necromancy 
Divination 


LEVEL 1 WARLOCK SPELLS 


Spell 

Armor of Agathys 
Arms of Hadar 
Bane 

Charm Person 


Comprehend Languages 


Detect Magic 


Expeditious Retreat 


Hellish Rebuke 
Hex 
Illusory Script 


Protection from Evil and 


Good 


Speak with Animals 
Tasha's Hideous Laughter 


Unseen Servant 
Witch Bolt 


School 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Divination 
Divination 
Transmutation 
Evocation 
Enchantment 
Illusion 
Abjuration 


Divination 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Evocation 


LEVEL 2 WARLOCK SPELLS 


Spell 

Cloud of Daggers 
Crown of Madness 
Darkness 

Enthrall 

Hold Person 
Invisibility 

Mind Spike 
Mirror Image 
Misty Step 


Ray of Enfeeblement 


Spider Climb 
Suggestion 


LEVEL 3 WARLOCK SPELLS 


Spell 
Counterspell 
Dispel Magic 
Fear 

Fly 


School 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Illusion 
Divination 
Illusion 
Conjuration 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 


Enchantment 


School 
Abjuration 
Abjuration 
Illusion 
Transmutation 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


Mex cr rc m на иШ y 


Special 


Special 


C 
К, M 
C, M 


C 0 (Cy ж 


Special 
C 


C 
С 
С 
С 
C 
C 


Special 


C 
C 


Spell 

Gaseous Form 
Hunger of Hadar 
Hypnotic Pattern 
Magic Circle 
Major Image 
Remove Curse 
Summon Fey 
Summon Undead 
Tongues 
Vampiric Touch 


LEVEL 4 WARLOCK SPELLS 


Spell 

Banishment 

Blight 

Charm Monster 
Dimension Door 
Hallucinatory Terrain 
Summon Aberration 


LEVEL 5 WARLOCK SPELLS 


Spell 

Contact Other Plane 
Dream 

Hold Monster 

Jallarzi's Storm of Radiance 
Mislead 

Planar Binding 

Scrying 

Synaptic Static 
Teleportation Circle 


School 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 
llusion | 
Abjuration 
Illusion 
Abjuration 
Conjuration 
Necromancy 
Divination 
Necromancy 


School 
Abjuration 
Necromancy 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Illusion 


Conjuration 


School 
Divination 
Illusion 
Enchantment 
Evocation 
Illusion 
Abjuration 
Divination 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 


LEVEL 6 WARLOCK SPELLS 


Spell 

Arcane Gate 

Circle of Death 

Create Undead 

Eyebite 

Summon Fiend 

Tasha's Bubbling Cauldron 
True Seeing 


School 
Conjuration 
Necromancy 
Necromancy 
Necromancy 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 


Divination 


Special 
C 


С 
С 
M 
С 


Special 
C 


Special 
С 


LEVEL 7 WARLOCK SPELLS 


Spell School Special 
Etherealness Conjuration ANM 
Finger of Death Necromancy = 
Forcecage Evocation C, M 
Plane Shift Conjuration M 
LeveL 8 WARLOCK SPELLS 

Spell School Special 
Befuddlement Enchantment zm 
Demiplane Conjuration — 
Dominate Monster Enchantment [e 
Glibness Enchantment = 
Power Word Stun Enchantment == 
LEVEL 9 WARLOCK SPELLS 

Spell School Special 
Astral Projection Necromancy M 
Foresight Divination == 
Саїе Conjuration C, M 
Imprisonment Abjuration M 
Power Word Kill Enchantment — 


True Polymorph 
Weird 


Transmutation C 
Illusion C 


WARLOCK SUBCLASSES 

A Warlock subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Warlock levels, as specified 
in the subclass. This section presents the Archfey 
Patron, Celestial Patron, Fiend Patron, and Great 
Old One Patron subclasses. 


ARCHFEY PATRON 
Bargain with Whimsical Fey 


Your pact draws on the power of the Feywild. When 


you choose this subclass, you might make a deal 
with an archfey, such as the Prince of Frost; the 
Queen of Air and Darkness, ruler of the Gloaming 
Court; Titania of the Summer Court; or an ancient 
hag. Or you might call on a spectrum of Fey, weav- 
ing a web of favors and debts. Whoever they are, 
your patron is often inscrutable and whimsical. 


LEVEL 3: ARCHFEY SPELLS 
The magic of your patron ensures you always have 


certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level 


specified in the Archfey Spells table, you thereafter 
always have the listed spells prepared. 


ARCHFEY SPELLS 
Warlock Level Spells 


3) Calm Emotions, Faerie Fire, Misty 
Step, Phantasmal Force, Sleep 
5 Blink, Plant Growth 


Dominate Beast, Greater Invisibility 
Dominate Person, Seeming 


LEVEL 3: STEPS OF THE FEY 

Your patron grants you the ability to move between 
the boundaries of the planes. You can cast Misty 
Step without expending a spell slot a number of 
times equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 


of once), and you regain all expended uses when you 
finish a Long Rest. 


In addition, whenever you cast that spell, you can 
choose one of the following additional effects. 

Refreshing Step. Immediately after you teleport, 
you or one creature you can see within 10 feet of 
yourself gains 1d10 Temporary Hit Points. 

Taunting Step. Creatures within 5 feet of the space 
you left must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
against your spell save DC or have Disadvantage on 
attack rolls against creatures other than you until 
the start of your next turn. 


LEVEL 6: Misty EscAPE 
You can cast Misty Step as a Reaction in response to 
taking damage. 

In addition, the following effects are now among 
your Steps of the Fey options. 

Disappearing Step. You have the Invisible condi- 
tion until the start of your next turn or until imme- 
diately after you make an attack roll, deal damage, 
or cast a spell. 

Dreadful Step. Creatures within 5 feet of the space 
you left or the space you appear in (your choice) 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against 
your spell save DC or take 2d10 Psychic damage. 


LEVEL 10: BEGUILING DEFENSES 

Your patron teaches you how to guard your 
mind and body. You are immune to the Charmed 
condition. 

In addition, immediately after a creature you can 
see hits you with an attack roll, you can take a Reac- 
tion to reduce the damage you take by half (round 
down), and you can force the attacker to make a 
Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. 
On a failed save, the attacker takes Psychic damage 
equal to the damage you take. Once you use this Re- 
action, you can't use it again until you finish a Long 
Rest unless you expend a Pact Magic spell slot (no 
action required) to restore your use of it. 


. CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


LEVEL 14: BEWITCHING MAGIC 

Your patron grants you the ability to weave your 
magic with teleportation. Immediately after you 
cast an Enchantment or Illusion spell using an ac- 
tion and a spell slot, you can cast Misty Step as part 
of the same action and without expending a spell 


slot. 


CELESTIAL PATRON 


Call on the Power of the Heavens 


Your pact draws on the Upper Planes, the realms 

of everlasting bliss. You might enter an agreement 
with an empyrean, a couatl, a sphinx, a unicorn, 

or another heavenly entity. Or you might call on 
numerous such beings as you pursue goals aligned 
with theirs. Your pact allows you to experience a 
hint of the holy light that illuminates the multiverse. 


LEVEL 3: CELESTIAL SPELLS 

The magic of your patron ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level 
specified in the Celestial Spells table, you thereafter 
always have the listed spells prepared. 


CELESTIAL SPELLS 


Warlock Level Spells 
3 Aid, Cure Wounds, Guiding Bolt, 
Lesser Restoration, Light, 
Sacred Flame 


Daylight, Revivify 
Guardian of Faith, Wall of Fire 


9 Greater Restoration, 
Summon Celestial 


LEVEL 3: HEALING LIGHT 

You gain the ability to channel celestial energy to 
heal wounds. You have a pool of d6s to fuel this 
healing. The number of dice in the pool equals 1 plus 
your Warlock level. 

As a Bonus Action, you can heal yourself or one 
creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself, 
expending dice from the pool. The maximum num- 
ber of dice you can expend at once equals your 
Charisma modifier (minimum of one die). Roll the 
dice you expend, and restore a number of Hit Points 
equal to the roll's total. Your pool regains all ex- 
pended dice when you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 6: RADIANT SouL 

Your link to your patron allows you to serve as a 
conduit for radiant energy. You have Resistance to 
Radiant damage. Once per turn, when a spell you 
cast deals Radiant or Fire damage, you can add your 
Charisma modifier to that spell's damage against 
one of the spell's targets. 


LEVEL 10: CELESTIAL RESILIENCE 

You gain Temporary Hit Points whenever you use 
your Magical Cunning feature or finish a Short 

or Long Rest. These Temporary Hit Points equal 
your Warlock level plus your Charisma modifier. 
‘Additionally, choose up to five creatures you can 
see when you gain the points. Those creatures each 
gain Temporary Hit Points equal to half your War- 
lock level plus your Charisma modifier. 


LEVEL 14: SEARING VENGEANCE 
When you or an ally within 60 feet of you is about 
to make a Death Saving Throw, you can unleash ra- 
diant energy to save the creature. The creature re- 
gains Hit Points equal to half its Hit Point maximum 
and can end the Prone condition on itself. Each 
creature of your choice that is within 30 feet of the 
creature takes Radiant damage equal to 2d8 plus 
your Charisma modifier, and each has the Blinded 
condition until the end of the current turn. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest. 


FIEND PATRON 


Make a Deal with the Lower Planes 


Your pact draws on the Lower Planes, the realms of 
perdition. You might forge a bargain with a demon 
lord such as Demogorgon or Orcus; an archdevil 
such as Asmodeus; or a pit fiend, balor, yugoloth, 

or night hag that is especially mighty. That patron's 
aims are evil—the corruption or destruction of all 
things, ultimately including you—and your path is 
defined by the extent to which you strive against 
those aims. 


LEVEL 3: DARK ONE’S BLESSING 

When you reduce an enemy to О Hit Points, you 
gain Temporary Hit Points equal to your Charisma 
modifier plus your Warlock level (minimum of 1 
Temporary Hit Point). You also gain this benefit if 
someone else reduces an enemy within 10 feet of 
you to O Hit Points. 


LEVEL 3: FIEND SPELLS 

The magic of your patron ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level 
specified in the Fiend Spells table, you thereafter 
always have the listed spells prepared. 


FIEND SPELLS 
Warlock Level Spells 


3 Burning Hands, Command, 
Scorching Ray, Suggestion 


Fireball, Stinking Cloud 
Fire Shield, Wall of Fire 
9 Geas, Insect Plague 


Cevestiac PATRON 


SuBcLASS 


i 
4 
И 
1 
| 
1 


Fieno Patron 


Su&cLASS 


LEVEL 6: DARK ONE’S OWN Luck 

You can call on your fiendish patron to alter fate in 
your favor. When you make an ability check or a 
saving throw, you can use this feature to add 1d10 
to your roll. You can do so after seeing the roll but 


before any of the roll's effects occur. 

You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), but 
you can use it no more than once per roll. You re- 
gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 10: FIENDISH RESILIENCE 

Choose one damage type, other than Force, when- 
ever you finish a Short or Long Rest. You have 
Resistance to that damage type until you choose a 
different one with this feature. 


LEVEL 14: Нові THROUGH HELL 

Once per turn when you hit a creature with an 
attack roll, you can try to instantly transport the 
target through the Lower Planes. The target must 
succeed on a Charisma saving throw against your 
spell save DC, or the target disappears and hurtles 
through a nightmare landscape. The target takes 
8d10 Psychic damage if it isn't a Fiend, and it has 
the Incapacitated condition until the end of your 
next turn, when it returns to the space it previously 
occupied or the nearest unoccupied space. 

Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a 
Pact Magic spell slot (no action required) to restore 
your use of it. 


GREAT OLD ONE PATRON ŻŽ 
Unearth Forbidden Lore of Ineffable Beings 


When you choose this subclass, you might bind 
yourself to an unspeakable being from the Far 
Realm or an elder god—a being such as Tharizdun, 
the Chained God; Zargon, the Returner; Hadar, the 
Dark Hunger; or Great Cthulhu. Or you might in- 
voke several entities without yoking yourself to one. 
The motives of these beings are incomprehensible, 
and the Great Old One might be indifferent to your 
existence. But the secrets you've learned neverthe- 
less allow you to draw strange magic from it. 


LEVEL 3: AWAKENED MIND 

You can form a telepathic connection between your 
mind and the mind of another. As a Bonus Action, 
choose one creature you can see within 50 feet of 
yourself. You and the chosen creature can com- 
municate telepathically with each other while the 


two of you are within a number of riles of each 
other equal to your Charisma modifier (roninimum 
of 1 mile). To understand each other, you each must 


mentally use a language the other knows. 


The telepathic connection lasts for a number of 
minutes equal to your Warlock level. It ends early 
if you use this feature to connect with a different 


creature. 


LEVEL 3: GREAT OLD ONE SPELLS 

The magic of your patron ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock 
level specified in the Great Old One Spells table, you 
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared. 


GREAT OLD ONE SPELLS 
Warlock Level Spells 
3 Detect Thoughts, Dissonant Whis- 
pers, Phantasmal Force, Tasha’s 
Hideous Laughter 


Clairvoyance, Hunger of Hadar 
Confusion, Summon Aberration 
Modify Memory, Telekinesis 


LEVEL 3: PSYCHIC SPELLS 

When you cast a Warlock spell that deals damage, 
you can change its damage type to Psychic. In 
addition, when you cast a Warlock spell that is an 
Enchantment or Illusion, you can do so without 
Verbal or Somatic components. 


LEVEL 6: CLAIRVOYANT COMBATANT 
When you form a telepathic bond with a creature 
using your Awakened Mind, you can force that 
creature to make a Wisdom saving throw against 
your spell save DC. On a failed save, the creature 
has Disadvantage on attack rolls against you, and 
you have Advantage on attack rolls against that 
creature for the duration of the bond. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest unless you ex- 
pend a Pact Magic spell slot (no action required) to 
restore your use of it. 


LEVEL 10: ELDRITCH HEX 

Your alien patron grants you a powerful curse. You 
always have the Hex spell prepared. When you cast 
Hex and choose an ability, the target also has Disad- 
vantage on saving throws of the chosen ability for 
the duration of the spell. 


LEVEL 10: THOUGHT SHIELD 

Your thoughts can't be read by telepathy or other 
means unless you allow it. You also have Resistance 
to Psychic damage, and whenever a creature deals 
Psychic damage to you, that creature takes the 
same amount of damage that you take. 


LEVEL 14: CREATE THRALL 

When you cast Summon Aberration, you can modify 
it so that it doesn’t require Concentration. If you do 
so, the spell’s duration becomes 1 minute for that 
casting, and when summoned, the Aberration has a 
number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your War- 
lock level plus your Charisma modifier. 

In addition, the first time each turn the Aberra- 
tion hits a creature under the effect of your Hex, the 
Aberration deals extra Psychic damage to the target 
equal to the bonus damage of that spell. 


Great Ого One 
Patron Susciass 


User of Arcane Pow, 


A Scholarly Magic- 


ee at ere 
h. 


j 

if Core WiZARD TRAITS 
| Primary Ability 

|| Hit Point Die 

Saving Throw 

Proficiencies 


Intelligence 
D6 per Wizard level 


Intelligence and Wisdom 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Arcana, History, 
Insight, Investigation, Medi- 
cine, Nature, or Religion 


Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons 


None 

Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers, 
Arcane Focus (Quarterstaff), 
Robe, Spellbook, Scholar's 
Pack, and 5 GP; or (B) 55 GP 


Armor Training 
Starting Equipment 


A TILE eS ee 
| IZARDS ARE DEFINED BY THEIR 
W exhaustive study of magic's inner work- 
V \/ ings. They cast spells of explosive fire, 
arcing lightning, subtle deception, and spectacular 
transformations. Their magic conjures monsters 
from other planes of existence, glimpses the future, 
or forms protective barriers. Their mightiest spells 
change one substance into another, call meteors 
from the sky, or open portals to other worlds. 

Most Wizards share a scholarly approach to 
magic. They examine the theoretical underpinnings 
of magic, particularly the categorization of spells 
into schools of magic. Renowned Wizards such as 
Bigby, Tasha, Mordenkainen, and Yolande have built 
on their studies to invent iconic spells now used 
across the multiverse. 

The closest a Wizard is likely to come to an or- 
dinary life is working as a sage or lecturer. Other 
Wizards sell their services as advisers, serve in mili- 
tary forces, or pursue lives of crime or domination. 

But the lure of knowledge calls even the most 
unadventurous Wizards from the safety of their 
libraries and laboratories and into crumbling ru- 
ins and lost cities. Most Wizards believe that their 
counterparts in ancient civilizations knew secrets 
of magic that have been lost to the ages, and discov- 
ering those secrets could unlock the path to a power 
greater than any magic available in the present age. 


BECOMING A WIZARD ... 


AS А LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 

- Gain all the traits in the Core Wizard Traits table. 

- Gain the Wizard's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Wizard Features table. 


As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 

+ Gain the Hit Point Die from the Core Wizard 
Traits table. 

* Gain the Wizard's level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Wizard Features table. See the multiclass- 


ing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available 
spell slots. 


WIZARD CLASS FEATURES 


As a Wizard, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Wizard levels. These 
features are listed in the Wizard Features table. 


LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING 

As a student of arcane magic, you have learned to 
cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcast- 
ing. The information below details how you use 
those rules with Wizard spells, which appear in the 
Wizard spell list later in the class’s description. 

Cantrips. You know three Wizard cantrips of your 
choice. Light, Mage Hand, and Ray of Frost are recom- 
mended. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can 
replace one of your cantrips from this feature with 
another Wizard cantrip of your choice. 

When you reach Wizard levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another Wizard cantrip of your choice, as shown in 
the Cantrips column of the Wizard Features table. 

Spellbook. Your wizardly apprenticeship cul- 
minated in the creation of a unique book: your 
spellbook. It is a Tiny object that weighs 3 pounds, 
contains 100 pages, and can be read only by you or 
someone casting Identify. You determine the book’s 
appearance and materials, such as a gilt-edged tome 
or a collection of vellum bound with twine. 

The book contains the level 1+ spells you know. It 
starts with six level 1 Wizard spells of your choice. 
Detect Magic, Feather Fall, Mage Armor, Magic Missile, 
Sleep, and Thunderwave are recommended. 

Whenever you gain a Wizard level after 1, add 
two Wizard spells of your choice to your spellbook. 
Each of these spells must be of a level for which you 
have spell slots, as shown in the Wizard Features 
table. The spells are the culmination of arcane re- 
search you do regularly. 

Spell Slots. The Wizard Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells. 
You regain all expended slots when you finish a 
Long Rest. 

Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of 
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with 
this feature. To do so, choose four spells from your 
spellbook. The chosen spells must be of a level for 
which you have spell slots. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


165 


166 


WIZARD FEATURES 


Proficiency 
Level Bonus Class Features 
1 +2 Spellcasting, Ritual Adept, 
Arcane Recovery 
2 +2 Scholar 
3 +2 Wizard Subclass 
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 
5 +3 Memorize Spell 
6 +3 Subclass feature 
7 +3 = 
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 
9 +4 — 
10 +4 Subclass feature 
n +4 = 
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 
13 +5 — 
14 +5 Subclass feature 
15 +5 — 
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 
7 +6 — 
18 *6 Spell Mastery 
19 +6 Epic Boon 
20 +6 Signature Spells 


The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Wizard levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Wizard Features table. Whenever 
that number increases, choose additional Wiz- 
ard spells until the number of spells on your list 
matches the number in the table. The chosen spells 
must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For 
example, if you're a level 3 Wizard, your list of pre- 
pared spells can include six spells of levels 1 and 2 in 
any combination, chosen from your spellbook. 

If another Wizard feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don’t count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Wizard spells for you. 

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre- 
pared spells, replacing any of the spells there with 
spells from your spellbook. 

Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your spellcast- 
ing ability for your Wizard spells. 

Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus 
or your spellbook as a Spellcasting Focus for your 


Wizard spells. 


CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


TUE A 


Cantrips 


3 


3 
3 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 


Prepared Spell Slots per Spell Level 
Spells 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 


жай 
a 

+ + RRP OR OR RRR PR ORO Pp OR ош 

WWW WwW WwW UL) (QJ UJ) WwW ww ш 

WWW UJ) UJ) WW WwW WwW WwW WwW ш 

WWW NM NN NONO ON ON ON = 

NO quy = A o oL ы d —À4 а 

юоә ә мз з җә э | 

е шм м ымы м ы | 


LEVEL 1: RITUAL ADEPT 

You can cast any spell as a Ritual if that spell has 
the Ritual tag and the spell is in your spellbook. You 
needn't have the spell prepared, but you must read 
from the book to cast a spell in this way. 


LEVEL 1: ARCANE RECOVERY 
You can regain some of your magical energy by 
studying your spellbook. When you finish a Short 
Rest, you can choose expended spell slots to recover. 
The spell slots can have a combined level equal to no 
more than half your Wizard level (round up), and 
none of the slots can be level 6 or higher. For exam- 
ple, if you're a level 4 Wizard, you can recover up to 
two levels' worth of spell slots, regaining either one 
level 2 spell slot or two level 1 spell slots. 

Once you use this feature, you can't do so again 
until you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 2: SCHOLAR 

While studying magic, you also specialized in an- 
other field of study. Choose one of the following 
skills in which you have proficiency: Arcana, His- 
tory, Investigation, Medicine, Nature, or Religion. 
You have Expertise in the chosen 51111. 


Ee = XE 
EXPANDi* С AND REPLACING A SPELLBOOK 
The spells you add to your spellbook as you gain 
levels reflect your ongoing magical research, but 
you might find other spells during your adven- 
tures that you can add to the book. You could dis- 
cover a Wizard spell on a Spell Scroll, for example, 
and then copy it into your spellbook. 

Copying a Spell into the Book. When you find 
a level 1+ Wizard spell, you can copy it into your 
spellbook if it's of a level you can prepare and 
if you have time to copy it. For each level ofthe 
spell, the transcription takes 2 hours and costs 50 
GP. Afterward you can prepare the spell like the 
other spells in your spellbook. 

Copying the Book. You can copy a spell from 
your spellbook into another book. This is like 
copying a new spell into your spellbook but faster, 
since you already know how to cast the spell. You 
need spend only 1 hour and 10 CP for each level 
of the copied spell. 

If you lose your spellbook, you can use the same 
procedure to transcribe the Wizard spells that 
you have prepared into a new spellbook. Filling 
out the remainder of the new book requires you 
to find new spells to do so. For this reason, many 
wizards keep a backup spellbook. 


LEVEL 3: WIZARD SUBCLASS 
You gain a Wizard subclass of your choice. The Ab- 
jurer, Diviner, Evoker, and Illusionist subclasses are 
detailed after this class's description. A subclass is 
a specialization that grants you features at certain 
Wizard levels. For the rest of your career, you gain 
each of your subclass's features that are of your 
Wizard level or lower. 


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which 
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Wizard 
levels 8, 12, and 16. 


LEVEL 5: MEMORIZE SPELL 

Whenever you finish a Short Rest, you can study 
your spellbook and replace one of the level 1+ Wiz- 
ard spells you have prepared for your Spellcasting 
feature with another level 1+ spell from the book. 


LEVEL 18: SPELL MASTERY 

You have achieved such mastery over certain spells 
that you can cast them at will. Choose a level 1 and 
a level 2 spel! in your spellbook that have a casting 
time of an action. You always have those spells pre- 
pared, and you can cast them at their lowest level 
without expending a spell slot. To cast either spell at 
a higher levei, you must expend a spell slot. 


THE ELF QUEEN YOLANDE 
AWES A REO DRAGON WITH 
HER SPELL, YOLANOE’S 
REGAL PRESENCE. 


Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can study 
your spellbook and replace one of those spells with 
an eligible spell of the same level from the book. 


LEVEL 19: Epic BOON 

You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an- 
other feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
Boon of Spell Recall is recommended. 


LEVEL 20: SIGNATURE SPELLS 

Choose two level 3 spells in your spellbook as your 
signature spells. You always have these spells pre- 
pared, and you can cast each of them once at level 3 
without expending a spell slot. When you do so, you 
can't cast them in this way again until you finish a 
Short or Long Rest. To cast either spell at a higher 
level, you must expend a spell slot. 


a mentee ett ment 


d | 
CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 4 167 3 
+ Җ т^ "ШИИ prr 0064 2 


p---—-—-—  OPMÁ—————M—— 


WIZARD SPELL LIST Spell School | Special 
This section presents the Wizard spell list. The Ice Knife Conjuration Рег 
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha- Identify Divination R, M 
betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed. ООО illusion RM 
In the Special column, C means the spell requires | ie - , 
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it Jump nsmutation a, 
requires a specific Material component. Longstrider Transmutation = 
Mage A Abjuration TM 
CANTRIPS (LEVEL O WIZARD SPELLS) ap: dica ) . 
j School Special Magic Missile Evocation == 
RE lash EAR Protection from Evil and Abjuration C,M 
LE didi we Good 
My c 
dii Ms Bem Ray of Sickness Necromancy — 
1 E Я E 
Shield Abjuration = 
| Dancing Lights Illusion С Silent image ави » 
і tati — 
i iil сенн dm d А Sleep Enchantment С 
P ы : e Tasha's Hideous Laughter Enchantment С 
апіте е e 
a A € н mage Tenser’s Floating Disk Conjuration R 
t vocation — 
te TR ni Thunderwave Evocation — 
age Han onjuration — 
d : | . Unseen Servant Conjuration R 
мр Mending Transmutation — : к 
| i Witch Bolt Evocation 
yes Message Transmutation — 
pe: 
Mind Sliver Enchantment — LEVEL 2 WIZARD SPELLS 
i Minor Illusion Illusion — Spell School Special 
" Poison Spray Necromancy zx Alter Self Transmutation С 
| Prestidigitation Transmutation — Arcane Lock Abjuration M 
| Ray of Frost Evocation = Arcane Vigor Abjuration — 
Shocking Grasp Evocation — Augury Divination R, M 
Thunderclap Evocation = Blindness/Deafness Transmutation — 
Toll the Dead Necromancy — Blur Illusion С 
True Strike Divination = Cloud of Daggers Conjuration С 
ЕЕ Аке SPELLS Continual Flame Evocation M 
Crown of Madness Enchant t 
Spell School Special / dl s 
Alarm Abjuration R arna Evocailan © 
Burning Hands йбн Darkvision Transmutation — 
Charm Person ОС es Detect Thoughts Divination C 
Chromatic Orb Evocation M DiagontsiBreath Transmutation С 
Color Spray ТЕЗЕ Enhance Ability Transmutation c 
Enlarge/Red i 
Comprehend Languages Divination R В и Сеоци T 
Detect Magic Divination CR Flaming Sphere Evocation С 
Disguise Self (бл EE Gentle Repose Necromancy В, M 
a Gust of Wind Evocation 
Expeditious Retreat Transmutation С f d 
False Life Necromancy Hot iere шш E 
Invisibilit Illusion C 
Feather Fall Transmutation — Dus) ? " 
7 dj Кодо, пос ransrmutation — 
Find Familiar Conjuration R, M : в t 
EE ANM C Levitate fransmutation C 
0; ои Я E А 
E в С | "- Locate Object Divination G 
rease onjurati — з 
Magic Mouth Illusion R, M 


-68 | CHAPTERZ2| CHARACTER CLASSES 


ES М, SE Se 


Spell 

Magic Weapon 
Melf's Acid Arrow 
Mind Spike 

Mirror Image 

Misty Step 

Nystul's Magic Aura 
Phantasmal Force 
Ray of Enfeeblement 
Rope Trick 
Scorching Ray 

See Invisibility 
Shatter 

Spider Climb 
Suggestion 

Web 


LEVEL 3 WIZARD SPELLS 


Spell 

Animate Dead 
Bestow Curse 
Blink 
Clairvoyance 
Counterspell 
Dispel Magic 
Fear 

Feign Death 
Fireball 

Fly 

Gaseous Form 
Glyph of Warding 
Haste 

Hypnotic Pattern 
Leomund's Tiny Hut 
Lightning Bolt 


School Special 
Transmutation — 
Evocation — 
Divination (© 
Illusion — 


Conjuration — 
Illusion — 
Illusion C 
Necromancy C 
Transmutation -— 
Evocation — 
Divination — 
Evocation — 
Transmutation С 
Епсһапїтепї С 
[e 


Conjuration 


School Special 
Necromancy — 
Necromancy С 


Transmutation — — 
Divination C, M 
Abjuration — 
Abjuration — 
Illusion C 
Necromancy R 
Evocation -— 
Transmutation 


Transmutation 


С 

G 
Abjuration M 
Transmutation С 
Illusion C 
Evocation R 
Evocation — 


Spell 
Magic Circle 
Major Image 
Nondetection 
Phantom Steed 
Protection from Energy 
Remove Curse 
Sending 
Sleet Storm 
Slow 
Speak with Dead 
Stinking Cloud 
Summon Fey 
Summon Undead 
Tongues 
Vampiric Touch 
Water Breathing 


LEVEL 4 WIZARD SPELLS 


Spell 

Arcane Eye 
Banishment 
Blight 

Charm Monster 
Confusion 


Conjure Minor Elementals 


Control Water 
Dimension Door 
Divination 

Evard's Black Tentacles 
Fabricate 

Fire Shield 

Greater Invisibility 
Hallucinatory Terrain 


School Special 
Abjuration M 
Illusion Є 
Abjuration M 
Illusion R 
Abjuration [e 
Abjuration — 
Divination — 
Conjuration С 
Transmutation (c 
Necromancy — 
Conjuration c 


Conjuration C, M 
Necromancy C, M 
Divination — 
Necromancy С 
Transmutation R 


School Special 
Divination (C 
Abjuration (S 
Necromancy — 
Enchantment — 
Enchantment [e 
Conjuration © 
Transmutation Cc 
Conjuration — 
Divination R, M 
Conjuration @ 
Transmutation — 
Evocation — 
Illusion C 
Illusion — 


В 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 


Spell School Special Spell — School ^ Special 
Ice Storm Evocation — Telekinesis иное С 
Leomund's Secret Chest Conjuration M Teleportation Circle Conjuration M 
Locate Creature Divination C Wall of Force Evocation С 
Mordenkainen's Faithful Conjuration — Wall of Stone Evocation C 
Hound Yolande’s Regal Presence Enchantment C 
ры a Т i LEvEL 6 WIZARD SPELLS 
Otiluke's Resilient Sphere Abjuration C Spell School Special 
Phantasmal Killer Illusion C Arcane Gate Conjuration c 
Polymorph Transmutation С Chain Lightning Evocation - 
Stone Shape Transmutation — Circle of Death Necromancy M 
Stoneskin Transmutation С, M Contingency Abjuration M 
Summon Aberration Conjuration C, M Create Undead Necromancy M 
Summon Construct Conjuration C, M Disintegrate Transmutation — 
Summon Elemental Conjuration C, M Drawmij's Instant Summons Сопјигаїіоп К, M 
Vitriolic Sphere Evocation — Eyebite Necromancy C 
Wall of Fire Evocation C Flesh to Stone Transmutation С 
Globe of Invulnerability Abjuration С 
LEVEL 5 WIZARD SPELLS Guards and Wards Abjuration M 
Spell School Special Magic Jar Necromancy M 
Animate Objects Transmutation C Mass Suggestion Enchantment E j 
Bigby’s Hand Evocation c Move Earth Transmutation С 
Circle of Power Abjuration c Otiluke's Freezing Sphere Evocation — 
Cloudkill Conjuration c Otto's Irresistible Dance Enchantment C 
Cone of Cold evocation p Programmed Illusion Illusion M 
Conjure Elemental Conjuration C Summon Fiend Conjuration C, M 
Contact Other Plane Divination R Sunbeam Evocation C 
Creation Illusion ES Tasha's Bubbling Cauldron Conjuration M 
Dominate Person Enchantment @ True Seeing Divination M 
Drean Illusion E Wall of Ice Evocation G 
Geas Enchantment — 
Hold Monster Enchantment С LEVEL 7 WIZARD SPELLS 
Jallarzi's Storm of Radiance Evocation С Spell School Special 
Legend Lore Divination M Delayed Blast Fireball Evocation C 
Mislead Illusion € Etherealness Conjuration — 
Modify Memory Enchantment С Finger of Death Necromancy — 
Passwall Transmutation — — Forcecage Evocation C, M 
Planar Binding Abjuration M Mirage Arcane Illusion — 
Rary's Telepathic Bond Divination Mordenkainen's Magnificent Conjuration M 
Scrying Divination C, M Mansion 
Seeming illusion Sf: Mordenkainen’s Sword Evocation C,M 
Steel Wind Strike Conjuration M Plane Shift Conjuration M 
Summon Dragon Conjuration С, M Prismatic Spray Кусс л — 
Synaptic Static Enchantment — — Project Image Illusion C, M 


Уо | CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 
ы ee — k ил. 5 


(^ W^ vr 


Spell 


Reverse Gravity 
Sequester 
Simulacrum 
Symbol 
Teleport 


LEvEL 8 WIZARD SPELLS 
Spell 

Antimagic Field 
Antipathy/Sympathy 
Befuddlement 

Clone 

Control Weather 
Demiplane 
Dominate Monster 
Incendiary Cloud 
Maze 

Mind Blank 


gu 


School 
Transmutation 
Transmutation 
Illusion 
Abjuration 


Conjuration 


School 
Abjuration 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Necromancy 
Transmutation 
Conjuration 
Enchantment 
Conjuration 
Conjuration 


Abjuration 


Special 
C 


M 
M 
M 


Special 


Spell School Special 
Power Word Stun Enchantment — TU 
Sunburst Evocation — | 
Telepathy Divination — | 
LEVEL 9 WIZARD SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Astral Projection Necromancy M 
Foresight Divination — 
Gate Conjuration C, M 
Imprisonment Abjuration M 
Meteor Swarm Evocation = 
Power Word Kill Enchantment — 
Prismatic Wall Abjuration — 
Shapechange Transmutation C, M 
Time Stop Transmutation — — 
True Polymorph Transmutation С 
Weird Illusion C 
Wish Conjuration — 
CHAPTER 3 | CHARACTER CLASSES 171 


ABJURER 


SuBCLASS 


WIZARD SUBCLASSES 


A Wizard subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Wizard levels, as specified 
in the subclass. This section presents the Abjurer, 
Diviner, Evoker, and Illusionist subclasses. 


ABJURER ME 
Shield Companions and Banish Foes 

Your study of magic is focused on spells that block, 
banish, or protect—ending harmful effects, ban- 
ishing evil influences, and protecting the weak. 
Abjurers are sought when baleful spirits require 
exorcism, when locations must be guarded against 
magical spying, and when portals to other planes of 
existence must be closed. Adventuring parties value 
Abjurers for the protection they provide against a 
variety of hostile magic and other attacks. 


LEVEL 3: ABJURATION SAVANT 

Choose two Wizard spells from the Abjuration 
school, each of which must be no higher than level 
2, and add them to your spellbook for free. 

In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Abjuration school to your 
spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a 
level for which you have spell slots. 


LEVEL 3: ARCANE WARD 

You can weave magic around yourself for protec- 
tion. When you cast an Abjuration spell with a spell 
slot, you can simultaneously use a strand of the 
spell's magic to create a magical ward on yourself 
that lasts until you finish a Long Rest. The ward has 
a Hit Point maximum equal to twice your Wizard 
level plus your Intelligence modifier. Whenever you 
take damage, the ward takes the damage instead, 
and if you have any Resistances or Vulnerabilities, 
apply them before reducing the ward's Hit Points. 
If the damage reduces the ward to О Hit Points, you 
take any remaining damage. While the ward has 

O Hit Points, it can't absorb damage, but its magic 
remains. 

Whenever you cast an Abjuration spell with a 
spell slot, the ward regains a number of Hit Points 
equal to twice the level of the spell slot. Alterna- 
tively, as a Bonus Action, you can expend a spell 
slot, and the ward regains a number of Hit Points 
equal to twice the level of the spell slot expended. 

Once you create the ward, you can't create it 
again until you finish a Long Rest. 


LEVEL 6: PROJECTED WARD 

When a creature that you can see within 30 feet of 
yourself takes damage, you can take а Reaction to 
cause your Arcane Ward to absorb that damage. If 
this damage reduces the ward to O Hit Points, the 


Juda cot op». gS lea GT o, 


CAPOLINE 


E et 


warded creature takes any remaining damage. If 
that creature has any Resistances or Vulnerabilities, 
apply them before reducing the ward's Hit Points. 


LEVEL 10: SPELL BREAKER 
You always have the Counterspell and Dispel Magic 
spells prepared. In addition, you can cast Dispel 
Magic as a Bonus Action, and you can add your Pro- 
ficiency Bonus to its ability check. 

When you cast either spell with a spell slot, that 
slot isn't expended if the spell fails to stop a spell. 


LEVEL 14: SPELL RESISTANCE 
You have Advantage on saving throws against 
spells, and you have Resistance to the damage of 


spells. 
DIVINER 


Learn the Secrets of the Multiverse 


The counsel of a Diviner is sought by those who 
want a clearer understanding of the past, present, 
and future. As a Diviner, you strive to part the veils 
of space, time, and consciousness. You work to mas- 
ter spells of discernment, remote viewing, supernat- 
ural knowledge, and foresight. 


LEVEL 3: DIVINATION SAVANT 

Choose two Wizard spells from the Divination 
school, each of which must be no higher than level 
2, and add them to your spellbook for free. 

In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Divination school to your 
spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a 
level for which you have spell slots. 


LEVEL 3: PORTENT 
Glimpses of the future begin to press on your 
awareness. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, roll 
two d20s and record the numbers rolled. You can 
replace any D20 Test made by you or a creature 
that you can see with one of these foretelling rolls. 
You must choose to do so before the roll, and you 
can replace a roll in this way only once per turn. 
Each foretelling roll can be used only once. When 
you finish a Long Rest, you lose any unused foretell- 
ing rolls. 


LEVEL 6: ExPERT DIVINATION 

Casting Divination spells comes so easily to you that 
it expends only a fraction of your spellcasting ef- 
forts. When you cast a Divination spell using a level 
2+ spell slot, you regain one expended spell slot. The 
slot you regain must be of a level lower than the slot 
you expended and can't be higher than level 5. 


LEVEL 10: THE THIRD EYE 
You can increase your powers of perception. As a 
Bonus Action, choose one of the following benefits, 
which lasts until you start a Short or Long Rest. 
You can't use this feature again until you finish a 
Short or Long Rest. 

Darkvision. You gain Darkvision with a range of 
120 feet. 

Greater Comprehension. You can read any 
language. 


See Invisibility. You can cast See Invisibility without 
expending a spell slot. 


LEVEL 14: GREATER PORTENT 

The visions in your dreams intensify and paint a 
more accurate picture in your mind of what is to 
come. Roll three d20s for your Portent feature 
rather than two. 


Diviner 
Susciass 


173 


лиин PP UP RN ETU RUE UE T RETI IUIUS 


EVOKER 
ыу” 1 
увс LASS. 


EVOKER — RN | 
Create Explosive Elemental Effects 
Your studies focus on magic that creates powerful 
elemental effects such as bitter cold, searing flame, 
rolling thunder, crackling lightning, and burning 
acid. Some Evokers find employment in military 
forces, serving as artillery to blast armies from afar. 
Others use their power to protect others, while 
some seek their own gain. 


LEVEL 3: EVOCATION SAVANT 

Choose two Wizard spells from the Evocation 
school, each of which must be no higher than level 
2, and add them to your spellbook for free. 

In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Evocation school to your 
spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a 
level for which you have spell slots. 


LEVEL 3: POTENT CANTRIP 

Your damaging cantrips affect even creatures that 
avoid the brunt of the effect. When you cast a can- 
trip at a creature and you miss with the attack roll 
or the target succeeds on a saving throw against the 
cantrip, the target takes half the cantrip's damage 
(if any) but suffers no additional effect from the 
cantrip. 


LEVEL 6: SCULPT SPELLS 

You can create pockets of relative safety within 

the effects of your evocations. When you cast an 
Evocation spell that affects other creatures that you 
can see, you can choose a number of them equal to 1 
plus the spell's level. The chosen creatures automat- 
ically succeed on their saving throws against the 
spell, and they take no damage if they would nor- 
mally take half damage on a successful save. 


LEVEL 10: EMPOWERED EVOCATION 
Whenever you cast a Wizard spell from the Evoca- 
tion school, you can add your Intelligence modifier 
to one damage roll of that spell. 


LEVEL 14: OVERCHANNEL 

You can increase the power of your spells. When 
you cast a Wizard spell with a spell slot of levels 1-5 
that deals damage, you can deal maximum damage 
with that spell on the turn you cast it. 

The first time you do so, you suffer no adverse ef- 
fect. If you use this feature again before you finish a 
Long Rest, you take 2d12 Necrotic damage for each 
level of the spell slot immediately after you cast it. 
This damage ignores Resistance and Immunity. 

Each time you use this feature again before finish- 
ing a Long Rest, the Necrotic damage per spell level 
increases by 1d12. 


sid i ueris 


ILLUSICHIST ___ S 
Weave Subtle Spells of Deception 
You specialize in magic that dazzles the senses and 


tricks the mind, and the illusions you craft make the 
impossible scem real. 


———————— 


LEVEL 3: ILLUSION SAVANT 

Choose two Wizard spells from the Illusion school, 
each of which must be no higher than level 2, and 
add them to your spellbook for free. 

In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Illusion school to your spell- 
book for free. The chosen spell must be of a level for 
which you have spell slots. 


LEVEL 3: IMPROVED ILLUSIONS 
You can cast Illusion spells without providing Ver- 
bal components, and if an Illusion spell you cast has 
a range of 10+ feet, the range increases by 60 feet. 
You also know the Minor Illusion cantrip. If you al- 
ready know it, you learn a different Wizard cantrip 
of your choice. The cantrip doesn’t count against 
your number of cantrips known. You can create 
both a sound and an image with a single casting of 
Minor Illusion, and you can cast it as a Bonus Action. 


LEVEL 6: PHANTASMAL CREATURES 

You always have the Summon Beast and Summon Fey 
spells prepared. Whenever you cast either spell, you 
can change its school to Illusion, which causes the 
summoned creature to appear spectral. You can cast 
the Illusion version of each spell without expending 
a spell slot, but casting it without a slot halves the 
creature's Hit Points. Once you cast either spell 
without a spell slot, you must finish a Long Rest be- 
fore you can cast the spell in that way again. 


LEVEL 10: ILLUSORY SELF 

When a creature hits you with an attack roll, you 
can take a Reaction to interpose an illusory dupli- 
cate of yourself between the attacker and yourself. 
The attack automatically misses you, then the illu- 
sion dissipates. 

Once you use this feature, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. You can also 
restore your use of it by expending a level 2+ spell 
slot (no action required). 


LEVEL 14: ILLUSORY REALITY 
You have learned to weave shadow magic into your 
illusions to give them a semi-reality. When you cast 


an Illusion spe!l with a spell slot, you can choose 

one inanimate, nonmagical object that is part of the 

illusion and make that object real. You can do this 

on your tur: 55 a Bonus Action while the spell is on- 

going. The oi. j^ct remains real for 1 minute, during ILLUSIONEN 
which it can’: deal damage or give any conditions. Susciass 
For ехатр!е, vou can create an illusion of a bridge 


over a chasm and then make it real and cross it, 


“WHIT 
THESE HEROES QI 
SILVERHAND, D 


< 
2 
ш 
> 
ш 
Г 
о 
z 


HIS CHAPTER DESCRIBES THE TWO 
| i components of an adventurer's origin: back- 
ground and species. Together, these elements 
| suggest your character's early experience and 
: family origin before taking up the adventuring life 
and learning the capabilities of a class (described in 
| chapter 5). 


ORIGIN COMPONENTS 


Each part of your character's origin reflects facets 
of your character, their life, and the circumstances 
l that started them on the path to adventure. 

If you choose a background or a species from an 
older book, see the sidebar “Backgrounds and Spe- 
cies from Older Books” in chapter 2 for how to use 
them with the options here. 


"w— 


CHARACTER BACKGROUNDS 


SS rA АСЫ Kir i cr ME EE 
Your character's background is a collection of char- 
acteristics that represent the place and occupation 
that were most formative before your character em- 
barked on a life of adventure. 

Each background includes a brief narrative of 
what your character's past might have been like. Al- 
ter the details of this narrative however you like. 


PARTS OF A BACKGROUND 
| A background includes the following parts. 

Ability Scores. A background lists three of your 
character's ability scores. Increase one by 2 and 
another one by 1, or increase all three by 1. None of 
these increases can raise a score above 20. 

Feat. A background gives your character a speci- 
fied Origin feat (described in chapter 5). 

А Skill Proficiencies. A background gives your char- 
acter proficiency in two specified skills. 

Tool Proficiency. Each background gives a charac- 
1 ter proficiency with one tool—either a specific tool 
| or one chosen from the Artisan's Tools category. 

| Tools are detailed in chapter 6. 

Equipment. Each background offers a choice be- 
tween a package of equipment and 50 GP. 


CHARACTER SPECIES 


When you choose your character's species, you 
determine whether your character is a human or a 
member of a fantastical species, such as dragonborn 
or gnome. 


CHRIS RALLIS 


| CHAPTER4 .- 
CHARACTER ORIGINS 


v E À 07 ——  -—— 


" А Ж, 
US * x 
"8 h л vut «у ; 
MEET uc с 0s TET TN 


m SERA 
i 


The peoples of the D&D multiverse hail from dif- 
ferent worlds and include many kinds of sapient life 
forms. A player character's species is the set of game 
traits that an adventurer gains from being one of 
those life forms. 


Some species can trace their origin to a single 
world, plane of existence, or god, while other spe- 
cies first appeared in multiple realms at once. What- 
ever a species' genesis, its members have spread 
across the multiverse and contribute to many differ- 
ent cultures. 


Members of most species live for about 80 years, 
with exceptions noted in the text about the species 
in this chapter. Regardless of life span, members 
of all species reach physical maturity at about the 
same age. Your character can be any age that isn't 
beyond their species' normal life span. 


PARTS OF A SPECIES 
A species includes the following parts. 

Creature Type. A character's species determines 
the character's creature type, which is described in 
the rules glossary. Every species in this chapter is 
Humanoid; playable non-Humanoid species appear 
in other D&D books. 

Size. Your character's species determines the 
character's size. Individuals within a species cover 
a wide range of heights, and some species include 
such diversity of size that you can choose whether 
your character is Small or Medium. 

Speed. Your character's species determines the 
character's Speed. 

Special Traits. Each species gives a character 
special traits—unique characteristics based on the 
species' physiology or magical nature. When you 
choose a species, your character gets all the special 
traits listed for it. Some traits involve making a 
choice from a handful of options. 


BACKGROUND DESCRIPTIONS 


Sixteen backgrounds are presented in this section in 
alphabetical order: 


Acolyte Guard Sailor 

Artisan Guide Scribe 

Charlatan Hermit Soldier 

Criminal Merchant Wayfarer яі 
Епќегќаіпег Noble at 
Farmer Sage 5 


| CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


idi 


ACOLYTE 


Ability Scores: Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma 

Feat: Magic Initiate (Cleric) (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Insight and Religion 

Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher’s Supplies 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Calligrapher’s Sup- 
plies, Book (prayers), Holy Symbol, Parchment (10 
sheets), Robe, 8 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


ARTISAN 


Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence 

Feat: Crafter (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and Persuasion 

Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Artisan’s Tools (see 
chapter 6) 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Artisan’s Tools (same 
as above), 2 Pouches, Traveler’s Clothes, 32 GP; or 
(B) 50 GP 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


You devoted yourself to service in a temple, either 
nestled in a town or secluded in a sacred grove. 
There you performed rites in honor of a god or 
pantheon. You served under a priest and studied re- 
ligion. Thanks to your priest’s instruction and your 
own devotion, you also learned how to channel a 
modicum of divine power in service to your place of 
worship and the people who prayed there. 


You began mopping floors and scrubbing count- 

ers in an artisan’s workshop for a few coppers per 
day as soon as you were strong enough to carry a 
bucket. When you were old enough to apprentice, 
you learned to create basic crafts of your own, as 
well as how to sweet-talk the occasion! demanding 
customer. Your trade has also given you a keen eye 
for detail. 


ux А 


CHARLATAN 


Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Charisma 

Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Deception and Sleight of Hand 

Tool Proficiency: Forgery Kit 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Forgery Kit, Costume, 
Fine Clothes, 15 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


CRIMINAL 


Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence 

Feat: Alert (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Sleight of Hand and Stealth 

Tool Proficiency: Thieves' Tools 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers, Thieves' 
Tools, Crowbar, 2 Pouches, Traveler's Clothes, 
16 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


Once you were old enough to order an ale, you soon 
had a favorite stool in every tavern within ten miles 
of where you were born. As you traveled the circuit 
from public house to watering hole, you learned to 
prey on unfortunates who were in the market for 

a comforting lie or two—perhaps a sham potion or 
forged ancestry records. 


You eked out a living in dark alley ways, cutting 
purses or burgling shops. Perhaps you were part of 
a small gang of like-minded wrongdoers who looked 
out for each other. Or maybe you were a lone wolf, 
fending for yourself against the local thieves' guild 
and more fearsome lawbreakers. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


ms 


N 


180 


ENTERTAINER 


Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Charisma 

Feat: Musician (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics and Performance 

Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Musical Instrument 
(see chapter 6) 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Musical Instrument 
(same as above), 2 Costumes, Mirror, Perfume, 
Traveler's Clothes, 11 GP; or (В) 50 GP 


FARMER 


Ability Scores: Strength, Constitution, Wisdom 

Feat: Tough (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling and Nature 

Tool Proficiency: Carpenter’s Tools 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Sickle, Carpenter's 
Tools, Healer’s Kit, Iron Pot, Shovel, Traveler’s 
Clothes, 30 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


You spent much of your youth following roving 
fairs and carnivals, performing odd jobs for musi- 
cians and acrobats in exchange for lessons. You may 
have learned how to walk a tightrope, how to play a 
lute in a distinct style, or how to recite poetry with 
impeccable diction. To this day, you thrive on ap- 
plause and long for the stage. 


You grew up close to the land. Years tending ani- 
mals and cultivating the earth rewarded you with 
patience and good health. You have a keen apprecia- 
tion for nature's bounty alongside a healthy respect 
for nature's wrath. 


GUARD 


Ability Scores: Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom 

Feat: Alert (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Athletics and Perception 

Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Gaming Set (see 
chapter 6) 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Spear, Light Crossbow, 
20 Bolts, Gaming Set (same as above), Hooded Lan- 
tern, Manacles, Quiver, Traveler's Clothes, 12 GP; or 
(B) 50 GP 


Your feet ache when you remember the countless 
hours you spent at your post in the tower. You were 
trained to keep one eye looking outside the wall, 
watching for marauders sweeping from the nearby 
forest, and your other eye looking inside the wall, 
searching for cutpurses and troublemakers. 


Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Wisdom 

Feat: Magic Initiate (Druid) (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Stealth and Survival 

Tool Proficiency: Cartographer's Tools 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Shortbow, 20 Arrows, 
Cartographer's Tools, Bedroll, Quiver, Tent, Travel- 
er's Clothes, 3 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


„Ае ж E | 


You came of age outdoors, far from settled lands. 
Your home was anywhere you chose to spread your 
bedroll. There are wonders in the wilderness— 
strange monsters, pristine forests and streams, 
overgrown ruins of great halls once trod by giants— 
and you learned to fend for yourself as you explored 
them. From time to time, you guided friendly nature 
priests who instructed you in the fundamentals of 
channeling the magic of the wild. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS { 181 


182 


> b. : ail - 
R77 ж 


tz 


HERMIT 


Ability Scores: Constitution, Wisdom, Charisma 

Feat: Healer (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Medicine and Religion 

Tool Proficiency: Herbalism Kit 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Quarterstaff, Herbalism 
Kit, Bedroll, Book (philosophy), Lamp, Oil (3 flasks), 
Traveler’s Clothes, 16 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


MERCHANT 


Ability Scores: Constitution, Intelligence, Charisma 

Feat: Lucky (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling and Persuasion 

Tool Proficiency: Navigator's Tools 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Navigator's Tools, 2 
Pouches, Traveler's Clothes, 22 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


You spent your early years secluded in a hut or 
monastery located well beyond the outskirts of the 
nearest settlement. In those days, your only com- 
panions were the creatures of the forest and those 
who would occasionally visit to bring news of the 
outside world and supplies. The solitude allowed 
you to spend many hours pondering the mysteries 
of creation. 


You were apprenticed to a trader, caravan master, 
or shopkeeper, learning the fundamentals of com- 
merce. You traveled broadly, and you earned a liv- 
ing by buying and selling the raw materials artisans 
need to practice their craft or finished works from 
such crafters. You might have transported goods 
from one place to another (by ship, wagon, or cara- 
van) or bought them from traveling ! raders and sold 
them in your own shop. 


— ———— 


^ 


Ability Scores: Strength, Intelligence, Charisma 

Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: History and Persuasion 

Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Gaming Set (see 
chapter 6) 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Gaming Set (same as 
above), Fine Clothes, Perfume, 29 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


SAGE 


Ability Scores: Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom 

Feat: Magic Initiate (Wizard) (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Arcana and History 

Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher's Supplies 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Quarterstaff, Callig- 
rapher's Supplies, Book (history), Parchment (8 
sheets), Robe, 8 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


| 


VAE? хуу NS SS 


You were raised in a castle, surrounded by wealth, 
power, and privilege. Your family of minor aristo- 
crats ensured that you received a first-class edu- 
cation, some of which you appreciated and some 

of which you resented. Your time in the castle, 
especially the many hours you spent observing your 
family at court, also taught you a great deal about 
leadership. 


You spent your formative years traveling between 
manors and monasteries, performing various odd 
jobs and services in exchange for access to their 
libraries. You whiled away many a long evening 
studying books and scrolls, learning the lore of the 
multiverse—even the rudiments of magic—and your 
mind yearns for more. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 4 183 


SAILOR 


К Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Wisdom 

Feat: Tavern Brawler (see chapter 5) 

| Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics and Perception 

Tool Proficiency: Navigator's Tools 

| Equipment: Choose A or B: (А) Dagger, Navigator's 

| Tools, Коре, Traveler's Clothes, 20 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


You lived as a seafarer, wind at your back and decks 
swaying beneath your feet. You've perched on bar- 
stools in more ports of call than you can remember, 
faced mighty storms, and swapped stories with folk 
who live beneath the waves. 


| Ability Scores: Dexterity, Intelligence, Wisdom 
| Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5) 
Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and Perception 
| Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher's Supplies 
| Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Calligrapher's Supplies, 
Fine Clothes, Lamp, Oil (3 flasks), Parchment (12 
sheets), 23 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


= CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


You spent formative years in a scriptorium, a mon- 
astery dedicated to the preservation of knowledge, 
or a government agency, where you learned to write 
with a clear hand and produce finely written texts. 
Perhaps you scribed government documents or cop- 
ied tomes of literature. You might have some skill as 
a writer of poetry, narrative, or scholarly research. 
Above all, you have a careful attention to detail, 
helping you avoid introducing mistakes to the docu- 
ments you copy and create. 


SOLDIER 


IIS 


Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution 

Feat: Savage Attacker (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Athletics and Intimidation 

Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Gaming Set (see 
chapter 6) 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Spear, Shortbow, 20 
Arrows, Gaming Set (same as above), Healer's Kit, 
Quiver, Traveler's Clothes, 14 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


WAYFARER 


Ability Scores: Dexterity, Wisdom, Charisma 

Feat: Lucky (see chapter 5) 

Skill Proficiencies: Insight and Stealth 

Tool Proficiency: Thieves' Tools 

Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers, Thieves' 
Tools, Gaming Set (any), Bedroll, 2 Pouches, Travel- 
er's Clothes, 16 GP; or (B) 50 GP 


You began training for war as soon as you reached 
adulthood and carry precious few memories of life 
before you took up arms. Battle is in your blood. 
Sometimes you catch yourself reflexively perform- 
ing the basic fighting exercises you learned first. 
Eventually, you put that training to use on the bat- 
tlefield, protecting the realm by waging маг. 


You grew up on the streets surrounded by similarly 
ill-fated castoffs, a few of them friends and a few of 
them rivals. You slept where you could and did odd 
jobs for food. At times, when the hunger became 
unbearable, you resorted to theft. Still, you never 
lost your pride and never abandoned hope. Fate is 
not yet finished with you. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


Л 


SPECIES DESCRIPTIONS 


Ten species are presented in this section in alpha- 
betical order: Aasimar, Dragonborn, Dwarf, ЕЙ, 
Gnome, Goliath, Halfling, Human, Orc, and Tiefling. 


AASIMAR 
Aasimar (pronounced AH-sih-mar) are mortals 

who carry a spark of the Upper Planes within their 
souls. Whether descended from an angelic being or 
infused with celestial power, they can fan that spark 
to bring light, healing, and heavenly fury. 

Aasimar can arise among any population of 
mortals. They resemble their parents, but they live 
for up to 160 years and have features that hint at 
their celestial heritage, such as metallic freckles, 
luminous eyes, a halo, or the skin color of an angel 
(silver, opalescent green, or coppery red). These 
features start subtle and become obvious when the 
aasimar learns to reveal their full celestial nature. 


AASIMAR TRAITS 


Creature Type: Humanoid 
Size: Medium (about 4—7 feet tall) or Small (about 2-4 


feet tall), chosen when you select this species 
Speed: 30 feet 


As an Aasimar, you have these special traits. 

Celestial Resistance. You have Resistance to Ne- 
crotic damage and Radiant damage. 

Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet. 

Healing Hands. As a Magic action, you touch a 
creature and roll a number of d4s equal to your 
Proficiency Bonus. The creature regains a number 
of Hit Points equal to the total rolled. Once you use 
this trait, you can't use it again until you finish a 


Long Rest. 


Light Bearer. You know the Light cantrip. ^ha- 


risma is your spellcasting ability for it. 


Celestial Revelation. When you reach character 


level 3, you can transform as a Bonus Action using 
one of the options below (choose the option each 
time you transform). The transformation lasts for 

1 minute or until you end it (no action required). 
Once you transform, you can't do so again until you 


finish a Long Rest. 


Once on each of your turns before the transfor- 


mation ends, you can deal extra damage to one tar- 
get when you deal damage to it with an attack or a 
spell. The extra damage equals your Proficiency Bo- 
nus, and the extra damage's type is either Necrotic 
for Necrotic Shroud or Radiant for Heavenly Wings 


and Inner Radiance. 


Here are the transformation options: 


Heavenly Wings. Two spectral wings sprout from 


your back temporarily. Until the transformation 
ends, you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed. 

Inner Radiance. Searing light temporarily radiates 
from your eyes and mouth. For the duration, you 
shed Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim 
Light for an additional 10 feet, and at the end of 
each of your turns, each creature within 10 feet 
of you takes Radiant damage equal to your Profi- 
ciency Bonus. 

Necrotic Shroud. Your eyes briefly become pools 
of darkness, and flightless wings sprout from your 
back temporarily. Creatures other than your allies 
within 10 feet of you must succeed on a Charisma 
saving throw (DC 8 plus your Charisma modifier 
and Proficiency Bonus) or have the Frightened 
condition until the end of your next turn. 


DRAGONBORN 


The ancestors of dragonborn hatched from the 
eggs of chromatic and metallic dragons. One story 
holds that these eggs were blessed by the dragon 
gods Bahamut and Tiamat, who wanted to populate 
the multiverse with people created in their image. 
Another story claims that dragons created the first 
dragonborn without the gods' blessings. Whatever 
their origin, dragonborn have made homes for 
themselves on the Material Plane. 

Dragonborn look like wingless, bipedal dragons— 
scaly, bright-eyed, and thick-boned with horns on 
their heads—and their coloration and other features 
are reminiscent of their draconic ancestors. 


DRAGONBORN TRAITS 
Creature Type: Humanoid 

Size: Medium (about 5—7 feet tall) 
Speed: 30 feet 


As a Dragonborn, you have these special traits. 

Draconic Ancestry. Your lineage stems from a 
dragon progenitor. Choose the kind of dragon from 
the Draconic Ancestors table. Your choice affects 
your Breath Weapon and Damage Resistance traits 
as well as your appearance. 


DRACONIC ANCESTORS 


Dragon Damage Type Dragon Damage Type 
Black Acid Gold X Fire 

Blue Lightning Green Poison 

Brass — Fire Red Fire 

Bronze Ligi:tning Silver — Cold 

Copper Acis White Cold 


Breath Weapon. When you take the Attack action 
on your turn, you can replace one of your attacks 
with an exhalation of magical energy in either a 
15-foot Cone or a 30-foot Line that is 5 feet wide 
(choose the shape each time). Each creature in that 
area must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 
plus your Constitution modifier and Proficiency Bo- 
nus). On a failed save, a creature takes 1d10 damage 
of the type determined by your Draconic Ancestry 
trait. On a successful save, a creature takes half as 
much damage. This damage increases by 1d10 when 
you reach character levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 

17 (4d10). 

You can use this Breath Weapon a number of 
times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you re- 
gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 

Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to the 
damage type determined by your Draconic Ances- 
try trait. 

Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet. 

Draconic Flight. When you reach character level 
5, you can channel draconic magic to give yourself 
temporary flight. As a Bonus Action, you sprout 
spectral wings on your back that last for 10 minutes 
or until you retract the wings (no action required) 
or have the Incapacitated condition. During that 
time, you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed. 
Your wings appear to be made of the same energy 
as your Breath Weapon. Once you use this trait, you 
can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


wal E NE a ан 


188 


DWARF 


Dwarves were raised from the earth in the elder 
days by a deity of the forge. Called by various 
names on different worlds—Moradin, Reorx, and 
others—that god gave dwarves an affinity for stone 
and metal and for living underground. The god also 
made them resilient like the mountains, with a life 
span of about 350 years. 

Squat and often bearded, the original dwarves 
carved cities and strongholds into mountainsides 
and under the earth. Their oldest legends tell of 
conflicts with the monsters of mountaintops and 
the Underdark, whether those monsters were tow- 
ering giants or subterranean horrors. Inspired by 
those tales, dwarves of any culture often sing of val- 
orous deeds—especially of the little overcoming the 
mighty. 

On some worlds in the multiverse, the first settle- 
ments of dwarves were built in hills or mountains, 
and the families who trace their ancestry to those 
settlements call themselves hill dwarves or moun- 
tain dwarves, respectively. The Greyhawk and 
Dragonlance settings have such communities. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


DwarF TRAITS 

Creature Type: Humanoid 

Size: Medium (about 4—5 feet tall) 
Speed: 30 feet 


As a Dwarf, you have these special traits. 

Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
120 feet. 

Dwarven Resilience. You have Resistance to Poison 
damage. You also have Advantage on saving throws 
you make to avoid or end the Poisoned condition. 

Dwarven Toughness. Your Hit Point maximum 
increases by 1, and it increases by 1 again whenever 
you gain a level. 

Stonecunning. As a Bonus Action, you gain Trem- 
orsense with a range of 60 feet for 10 minutes. 

You must be on a stone surface or touching a stone 
surface to use this Tremorsense. The stone can be 
natural or worked. 

You can use this Bonus Action a number of times 
equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all 
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 


ELF 


Created by the god Corellon, the first elves could 
change their forms at will. They lost this ability 
when Corellon cursed them for plotting with the 
deity Lolth, who tried and failed to usurp Corellon's 
dominion. When Lolth was cast into the Abyss, 
most elves renounced her and earned Corellon's for- 
giveness, but that which Corellon had taken from 
them was lost forever. 

No longer able to shape-shift at will, the elves 
retreated to the Fey wild, where their sorrow was 
deepened by that plane's influence. Over time, cu- 
riosity led many of them to explore other planes of 
existence, including worlds in the Material Plane. 

Elves have pointed ears and lack facial and body 
hair. They live for around 750 years, and they don't 
sleep but instead enter a trance when they need to 
rest. In that state, they remain aware of their sur- 
roundings while immersing themselves in memories 
and meditations. 

An environment subtly transforms elves after 
they inhabit it for a millennium or more, and it 
grants them certain kinds of magic. Drow, high 
elves, and wood elves are examples of elves who 
have been transformed thus. 


Drow 

Drow typically dwell in the Underdark and have 
been shaped by it. Some drow individuals and soci- 
eties avoid the Underdark altogether yet carry its 
magic. In the Eberron setting, for example, drow 
dwell in rainforests and cyclopean ruins on the con- 
tinent of Xen'drik. 


HicH ELVES 

High elves have been infused with the magic of 
crossings between the Feywild and the Material 
Plane. On some worlds, high elves refer to them- 
selves by other names. For example, they call them- 
selves sun or moon elves in the Forgotten Realms 
setting, Silvanesti and Qualinesti in the Dragon- 
lance setting, and Aereni in the Eberron setting. 


Woop ELVES 

Wood elves carry the magic of primeval forests 
within themselves. They are known by many other 
names, including wild elves, green elves, and forest 
elves. Grugach are reclusive wood elves of the Grey- 
hawk setting, while the Kagonesti and the Tairnadal 
are wood elves of the Dragonlance and Eberron set- 
tings, respectively. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


———— S CAES у 


18 


LIIS 


190 


А SHIP DEPARTS FROM А CITY BUILT BY HIGH ELVES. 


ELF TRAITS 

Creature Type: Humanoid 

Size: Medium (about 5—6 feet tall) 
Speed: 30 feet 


As an Elf, you have these special traits. 

Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet. 

Elven Lineage. You are part of a lineage that 
grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a lineage 
from the Elven Lineages table. You gain the level 1 
benefit of that lineage. 

When you reach character levels 3 and 5, you 
learn a higher-level spell, as shown on the table. 
You always have that spell prepared. You can cast it 


ELVEN LINEAGES 


once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability 
to cast it in that way when you finish a Long Rest. 
You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you 
have of the appropriate level. 

Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell- 
casting ability for the spells you cast with this trait 
(choose the ability when you select the lineage). 

Fey Ancestry. You have Advantage on saving 
throws you make to avoid or end the Charmed 
condition. 

Keen Senses. You have proficiency in the Insight, 
Perception, or Survival skill. 

Trance. You don't need to sleep, and magic can't 
put you to sleep. You can finish a Long Rest in 4 
hours if you spend those hours in a trancelike medi- 
tation, during which you retain consciousness. 


Lineage Level 1 Level 3 Level 5 
Drow The range of your Darkvision increases to 120 feet. Faerie Fire Darkness 
You also know the Dancing Lights cantrip. 
High Elf You know the Prestidigitation cantrip. Whenever you Detect Magic Misty Step 
finish a Long Rest, you can replace that cantrip with a 
different cantrip from the Wizard spell list. 
Wood Elf Your Speed increases to 35 feet. You also know the Longstrider Pas; without Trace 


Druidcraft cantrip. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


GNOME 


Gnomes are magical folk created by gods of inven- 
tion, illusions, and life underground. The earliest 
gnomes were seldom seen by other folk due to the 
gnomes’ secretive nature and their propensity for 
living in forests and burrows. What they lacked 
in size, they made up for in cleverness. They con- 
founded predators with traps and labyrinthine 
tunnels. They also learned magic from gods like 
Garl Glittergold, Baervan Wildwanderer, and Bar- 
avar Cloakshadow, who visited them in disguise. 
That magic eventually created the lineages of forest 
gnomes and rock gnomes. 

Gnomes are petite folk with big eyes and pointed 
ears, who live around 425 years. Many gnomes like 
the feeling of a roof over their head, even if that 
"roof" is nothing more than a hat. 


GNOME TRAITS 

Creature Type: Humanoid 

Size: Small (about 3—4 feet tall) 
Speed: 30 feet 


As a Gnome, you have these special traits. 
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet. 
Gnomish Cunning. You have Advantage on Intelli- 
gence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws. 
Gnomish Lineage. You are part of a lineage that 
grants you supernatural abilities. Choose one of 
the following options; whichever one you choose, 


Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell- | 
casting ability for the spells you cast with this trait | 
(choose the ability when you select the lineage): | 


Forest Gnome. You know the Minor Illusion cantrip. 


You also always have the Speak with Animals spell 
prepared. You can cast it without a spell slot a 
number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, 
and you regain all expended uses when you finish 
a Long Rest. You can also use any spell slots you 
have to cast the spell. 


Rock Gnome. You know the Mending and Presti- 


digitation cantrips. In addition, you can spend 10 
minutes casting Prestidigitation to create a Tiny 
clockwork device (AC 5, 1 HP), such as a toy, fire 
starter, or music box. When you create the device, 
you determine its function by choosing one effect 
from Prestidigitation; the device produces that 
effect whenever you or another creature takes 

a Bonus Action to activate it with a touch. If the 
chosen effect has options within it, you choose 
one of those options for the device when you 
create it. For example, if you choose the spell's 
ignite-extinguish effect, you determine whether 
the device ignites or extinguishes fire; the device 
doesn't do both. You can have three such devices 
in existence at a time, and each falls apart 8 hours 
after its creation or when you dismantle it with a 
touch as a Utilize action. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS | 19 
: ———— A Ómoá 


GOLIATH 

Towering over most folk, goliaths are distant de- 
scendants of giants. Each goliath bears the favors 
of the first giants—favors that manifest in various 
supernatural boons, including the ability to quickly 
grow and temporarily approach the height of goli- 
aths' gigantic kin. 

Goliaths have physical characteristics that are 
reminiscent of the giants in their family lines. For 
example, some goliaths look like stone giants, while 
others resemble fire giants. Whatever giants they 
count as kin, goliaths have forged their own path in 
the multiverse—unencumbered by the internecine 
conflicts that have ravaged giantkind for ages—and 
seek heights above those reached by their ancestors. 


GOLIATH TRAITS 

Creature Type: Humanoid 

Size: Medium (about 7—8 feet tall) 
Speed: 35 feet 


As a Goliath, you have these special traits. 

Giant Ancestry. You are descended from Giants. 
Choose one of the following benefits—a supernat- 
ural boon from your ancestry; you can use the 
chosen benefit a number of times equal to your 
Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses 
when you finish a Long Rest: 


Cloud's Jaunt (Cloud Giant). As a Bonus Action, 
you magically teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccu- 
pied space you can see. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


Fire’s Burn (Fire Giant). When you hit a target 
with an attack roll and deal damage to it, you can 
also deal 1d10 Fire damage to that target. 

Frost’s Chill (Frost Giant). When you hit a target 
with an attack roll and deal damage to it, you 
can also deal 1d6 Cold damage to that target and 
reduce its Speed by 10 feet until the start of your 
next turn. 

Hill’s Tumble (Hill Giant). When you hit a Large 
or smaller creature with an attack roll and deal 
damage to it, you can give that target the Prone 
condition. 

Stone’s Endurance (Stone Giant). When you take 
damage, you can take a Reaction to roll 1d12. Add 
your Constitution modifier to the number rolled 
and reduce the damage by that total. 

Storm’s Thunder (Storm Giant). When you take 
damage from a creature within 60 feet of you, 
you can take a Reaction to deal 1d8 Thunder dam- 
age to that creature. 


Large Form. Starting at character level 5, you 
can change your size to Large as a Bonus Action if 
youre in a big enough space. This transformation 
lasts for 10 minutes or until you end it (no action 
required). For that duration, you have Advantage 
on Strength checks, and your Speed increases by 10 
feet. Once you use this trait, you can't use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest. 

Powerful Build. You have Advantage on any sav- 
ing throw you make to end the Grappled condition. 
You also count as one size larger when determining 
your carrying capacity. 


MINCHEL OR 


HALFLING 


Cherished and guided by gods who value life, home, 
and hearth, halflings gravitate toward bucolic ha- 
vens where family and community help shape their 
lives. That said, many halflings possess a brave and 
adventurous spirit that leads them on journeys of 
discovery, affording them the chance to explore a 
bigger world and make new friends along the way. 
Their size—similar to that of a human child—helps 
them pass through crowds unnoticed and slip 
through tight spaces. 

Anyone who has spent time around halflings, par- 
ticularly halfling adventurers, has likely witnessed 
the storied "luck of the halflings" in action. When a 
halfling is in mortal danger, an unseen force seems 
to intervene on the halfling's behalf. Many halflings 
believe in the power of luck, and they attribute their 
unusual gift to one or more of their benevolent 
gods, including Yondalla, Brandobaris, and Charma- 
laine. The same gift might contribute to their robust 
life spans (about 150 years). 

Halfling communities come in all varieties. For ev- 
ery sequestered shire tucked away in an unspoiled 
part of the world, there's a crime syndicate like the 
Boromar Clan in the Eberron setting or a territorial 
mob of halflings like those in the Dark Sun setting. 


Halflings who prefer to live underground are 
sometimes called strongheart halflings or stouts. 
Nomadic halflings, as well as those who live among 
humans and other tall folk, are sometimes called 
lightfoot halflings or tallfellows. 


HALFLING TRAITS 
Creature Type: Humanoid 

Size: Small (about 2-3 feet tall) 
Speed: 30 feet 


As a Halfling, you have these special traits. 
Brave. You have Advantage on saving throws you 
make to avoid or end the Frightened condition. 
Halfling Nimbleness. You can move through the 
space of any creature that is a size larger than you, 
but you can't stop in the same space. | 
Luck. When you roll a 1 on the 420 of a D20 Test, | 
you can reroll the die, and you must use the new H 
roll. 
Naturally Stealthy. You can take the Hide action 
even when you are obscured only by a creature that 
is at least one size larger than you. 


CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 4 193 7X 
de +; vien. NONI: dp Midi atn C USE 


194 | CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


E 


af 
E 

E 
© 


HuMAN 


Found throughout the multiverse, humans are as 
varied as they are numerous, and they endeavor to 
achieve as much as they can in the years they are 
given. Their ambition and resourcefulness are com- 
mended, respected, and feared on many worlds. 

Humans are as diverse in appearance as the 
people of Earth, and they have many gods. Schol- 
ars dispute the origin of humanity, but one of the 
earliest known human gatherings is said to have 
occurred in Sigil, the torus-shaped city at the center 
of the multiverse and the place where the Common 
language was born. From there, humans could have 
spread to every part of the multiverse, bringing the 
City of Doors’ cosmopolitanism with them. 


HUMAN TRAITS 
Creature Type: Humanoid 


Size: Medium (about 4—7 feet tall) or Small (about 2—4 


feet tall), chosen when you select this species 
Speed: 30 feet 


As a Human, you have these special traits. 

Resourceful. You gain Heroic Inspiration when- 
ever you finish a Long Rest. 

Skillful. You gain proficiency in one skill of your 
choice. 

Versatile. You gain an Origin feat of your choice 
(see chapter 5). Skilled is recommended. 


AND 


ZUZANNA WUZYK, WAYNE ENCL 


“ак PAPE 


Овс 


Orcs trace their creation to Gruumsh, a powerful 
god who roamed the wide open spaces of the Mate- 
rial Plane. Gruumsh equipped his children with gifts 
to help them wander great plains, vast caverns, and 
churning seas and to face the monsters that lurk 
there. Even when they turn their devotion to other 
gods, orcs retain Gruumsh's gifts: endurance, deter- 
mination, and the ability to see in darkness. 

Orcs are, on average, tall and broad. They have 
gray skin, ears that are sharply pointed, and prom- 
inent lower canines that resemble small tusks. Orc 
youths on some worlds are told about their ances- 
tors' great travels and travails. Inspired by those 
tales, many of those orcs wonder when Gruumsh 
will call on them to match the heroic deeds of old 
and if they will prove worthy of his favor. Other 
orcs are happy to leave old tales in the past and find 
their own way. 


Orc TRAITS 

Creature Type: Humanoid 

Size: Medium (about 6-7 feet tall) 
Speed: 30 feet 


As an Orc, you have these special traits. 

Adrenaline Rush. You can take the Dash action as 
a Bonus Action. When you do so, you gain a number 
of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Proficiency 
Bonus. 

You can use this trait a number of times equal 
to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all ex- 
pended uses when you finish a Short or Long Rest. 

Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
120 feet. 

Relentless Endurance. When you are reduced to 0 
Hit Points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 
Hit Point instead. Once you use this trait, you can't 
do so again until you finish a Long Rest. 


| CHAPTER 4 | CHARACTER ORIGINS 


ro our We acusam 


CHTHONIC 


TIEFLING 


ABYSSAL 
TIEFLING 


INFERNAL 


TIEFLING 


TIEFLING 


Tieflings are either born in the Lower Planes or 
have fiendish ancestors who originated there. A 
tiefling (pronounced TEE-fling) is linked by blood 
to a devil, a demon, or some other Fiend. This con- 
nection to the Lower Planes is the tiefling’s fiendish 
legacy, which comes with the promise of power yet 
has no effect on the tiefling’s moral outlook. 

A tiefling chooses whether to embrace or lament 
their fiendish legacy. The three legacies are de- 
scribed below. 


ABYSSAL 

The entropy of the Abyss, the chaos of Pandemo- 
nium, and the despair of Carceri call to tieflings 
who have the abyssal legacy. Horns, fur, tusks, and 
peculiar scents are common physical features of 
such tieflings, most of whom have the blood of de- 
mons coursing through their veins. 


CHTHONIC 

Tieflings who have the chthonic legacy feel not only 
the tug of Carceri but also the greed of Gehenna 
and the gloom of Hades. Some of these tieflings look 
cadaverous. Others possess the unearthly beauty 
of a succubus, or they have physical features in 
common with a night hag, a yugoloth, or some other 
Neutral Evil fiendish ancestor. 


INFERNAL 

The infernal legacy connects tieflings not only to 
Gehenna but also the Nine Hells and the raging 
battlefields of Acheron. Horns, spines, tails, golden 
eyes, and a faint odor of sulfur or smoke are com- 
mon physical features of such tiefliags, most of 


whom trace their ancestry to deviis. 


TIEFLING TRAITS 
Creature Type: Humanoid 
Size: Medium (about 4—7 feet tall) or Small (about 

3-4 feet tall), chosen when you select this species 
Speed: 30 feet 
As a Tiefling, you have the following special traits. 

Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet. 

Fiendish Legacy. You are the recipient of a legacy 
that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a leg- 
acy from the Fiendish Legacies table. You gain the 
level 1 benefit of the chosen legacy. 


FiENDISH LEGACIES 

Legacy Level 1 

Abyssal You have Resistance to Poison damage. 
You also know the Poison Spray cantrip. 

Chthonic You have Resistance to Necrotic damage. 
You also know the Chill Touch cantrip. 

Infernal You have Resistance to Fire damage. 
You also know the Fire Bolt cantrip. 


When you reach character levels 3 and 5, you 
learn a higher-level spell, as shown on the table. 
You always have that spell prepared. You can cast it 
once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability 
to cast it in that way when you finish a Long Rest. 
You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you 
have of the appropriate level. 

Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell- 
casting ability for the spells you cast with this trait 
(choose the ability when you select the legacy). 

Otherworldly Presence. You know the Thauma- 
turgy cantrip. When you cast it with this trait, the 
spell uses the same spellcasting ability you use for 
your Fiendish Legacy trait. 


Level 3 Level 5 
Ray of Sickness Hold Person |4 
False Life Ray of Enfeeblement | 


Hellish Rebuke Darkness — 


Tue WeaTHERMAY-FOxGROVE TWINS, GENNIFER AND LAURIE, 
ALONG WITH THE INVESTIGATORS ALANIK Ray AND ARTHUR 
SEDGWICK, FIGHT TO ESCAPE THE HORRORS OF СлѕтіЕ RAvENLOFT. 


E |— 
7 


ZOLTAN BOROS 


CHAPTER 5 
— OX SS ——— nnn 
HIS CHAPTER OFFERS A COLLECTION OF FEAT LisT 
j | feats, which are special features not tied to a 

JL character class. A feat represents a talent or Feat 
an area of expertise that gives a character special Ability Score Improvement* 
capabilities. It embodies training, experience, and Actor 
abilities beyond what a class provides. Alert 

The sections below explain the parts of a feat 
and list a variety of feat options separated into Archery 
categories. " г Athlete 

Your background gives you a feat, and at certain ; "P 
levels, your class gives you the Ability Score Im- Blind Fighting 


provement feat or the choice of another feat for 
which you qualify. 

By whatever means you acquire a feat, you 
can take it only once unless its description says 
otherwise. 


FEAT DESCRIPTIONS 


This chapter's feats are organized by category— 
Origin, General, Fighting Style, or Epic Boon—and 
alphabetized in each category. All the feats are 
listed alphabetically in the Feat List table. If a feat 
can be taken more than once, an asterisk appears 
after its name in that table. 


PARTS OF A FEAT 


The description of a feat contains the following 
parts, which are presented after the feat's name. 

Category. A feat is a member of a category, which 
is noted in the feat. If you're instructed to choose 
a feat from a specific category, such as the Origin 
category, that category must appear under the 
feat's name. If you're instructed to choose a feat and 
no category is specified, you can choose from any 
category. 

Prerequisite. To take a feat, you must meet any 
prerequisite in its description unless a feature al- 
lows you to take the feat without the prerequisite. 
If a prerequisite includes a class, you must have at 
least 1 level in that class to take the feat. 

Benefit. The benefits of a feat are detailed after 
any prerequisites are listed. If you have a feat, you 
gain its benefits. 

Repeatable. A feat can be taken only once unless 
its description states otherwise in a "Repeatable" 
subsection. 


Boon of Combat Prowess 
Boon of Dimensional Travel 
Boon of Energy Resistance 
Boon of Fate 

Boon of Fortitude 

Boon of Irresistible Offense 
Boon of Recovery 

Boon of Skill 

Boon of Speed 

Boon of Spell Recall 

Boon of the Night Spirit 
Boon of Truesight 
Charger 

Chef 

Crafter 

Crossbow Expert 

Crusher 

Defense 

Defensive Duelist 

Dual Wielder 

Dueling 

Durable 

Elemental Adept* 
Fey-Touched 

Grappler 

Great Weapon Fighting 
Great Weapon Master 
Healer 


Category 
General 
General 
Origin 
Fighting Style 
General 
Fighting Style 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
Epic Boon 
General 
General 
Origin 
General 
General 
Fighting Style 
General 
General 
Fighting Style 
General 
General 
General 
General 
Fighting Style 
General 


Origin 


CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 


—— 


Feat 
Heavily Armored 


Heavy Armor Master 


Inspiring Leader 
Interception 
Keen Mind 
Lightly Armored 
Lucky 

Mage Slayer 
Magic Initiate* 


Martial Weapon Training 
Medium Armor Master 
Moderately Armored 
Mounted Combatant 


Musician 
Observant 
Piercer 
Poisoner 
Polearm Master 
Protection 
Resilient 

Ritual Caster 
Savage Attacker 
Sentinel 
Shadow-Touched 
Sharpshooter 
Shield Master 
Skilled* 

Skill Expert 
Skulker 

Slasher 

Speedy 


Spell Sniper 


200 CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 


Category 
General 
General 
General 
Fighting Style 
General 
General 
Origin 
General 
Origin 
General 
General 
General 
General 
Origin 
General 
General 
General 
General 
Fighting Style 
General 
General 
Origin 
General 
General 
General 
General 
Origin 
General 
General 
General 
General 


General 


Feat Category 


Tavern Brawler Origin 
Telekinetic General 
Telepathic General 
Thrown Weapon Fighting Fighting Style 
Tough Origin 


Two-Weapon Fighting Fighting Style 
Unarmed Fighting 
War Caster General 


Weapon Master General 


Fighting Style 


*This feat can be taken more than once. 


ORIGIN FEATS 
These feats are in the Origin category. 


ALERT 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 
Initiative Proficiency. When you roll Initiative, 
you can add your Proficiency Bonus to the roll. 
Initiative Swap. Immediately after you roll Initia- 
tive, you can swap your Initiative with the Initiative 
of one willing ally in the same combat. You can't 
make this swap if you or the ally has the Incapaci- 
tated condition. 


CRAFTER 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 

Tool Proficiency. You gain proficiency with three 
different Artisan's Tools of your choice from the 
Fast Crafting table. 

Discount. Whenever you buy a nonmagical item, 
you receive a 20 percent discount on it. 

Fast Crafting. When you finish a Long Rest, you 
can craft one piece of gear from the Fast Crafting 
table, provided you have the Artisan's Tools associ- 
ated with that item and have proficiency with those 
tools. The item lasts until you finish another Long 
Rest, at which point the item falls apart. 


E 


FAST CRAFTING 
Artisan’s Tools 
Carpenter's Tools 
Leatherworker's Tools 
Mason's Tools 
Potter's Tools 


Smith's Tools 


Tinker's Tools 
Weaver's Tools 


Woodcarver's Tools 


Crafted Gear 

Ladder, Torch 

Case, Pouch 

Block and Tackle 

Jug, Lamp 

Ball Bearings, Bucket, 


Caltrops, Grappling Hook, 
Iron Pot 


Bell, Shovel, Tinder Box 
Basket, Rope, Net, Tent 
Club, Greatclub, 


Quarterstaff 


HEALER 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 
Battle Medic. If you have a Healer's Kit, you can 
expend one use of it and tend to a creature within 
5 feet of yourself as a Utilize action. That creature 
can expend one of its Hit Point Dice, and you then 
roll that die. The creature regains a number of Hit 
Points equal to the roll plus your Proficiency Bonus. 
Healing Rerolls. Whenever you roll a die to deter- 
mine the number of Hit Points you restore with a 
spell or with this feat's Battle Medic benefit, you can 
reroll the die if it rolls a 1, and you must use the new 
roll. 


Lucky 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 

Luck Points. You have a number of Luck Points 
equal to your Proficiency Bonus and can spend the 
points on the benefits below. You regain your ex- 
pended Luck Points when you finish a Long Rest. 

Advantage. When you roll a d20 for a D20 Test, 
you can spend 1 Luck Point to give yourself Advan- 
tage on the roll. 

Disadvantage. When a creature rolls a d20 for an 
attack roll against you, you can spend 1 Luck Point 
to impose Disadvantage on that roll. 


MAGIC INITIATE 
Origin Feat 


You gain the following benefits. 

Two Cantrips. You learn two cantrips of your 
choice from the Cleric, Druid, or Wizard spell list. 
Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcast- 
ing ability for this feat's spells (choose when you 
select this feat). 


Level 1 Spell. Choose a level 1 spell from the same 
list you selected for this feat's cantrips. You always 
have that spell prepared. You can cast it once with- 
out a spell slot, and you regain the ability to cast it 
in that way when you finish a Long Rest. You can 
also cast the spell using any spell slots you have. 

Spell Change. Whenever you gain a new level, you 
can replace one of the spells you chose for this feat 
with a different spell of the same level from the cho- 
sen spell list. 


Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once, 
but you must choose a different spell list each time. 


MUSICIAN 
Origin Feat 


You gain the following benefits. 

Instrument Training. You gain proficiency with 
three Musical Instruments of your choice. 

Encouraging Song. As you finish a Short or Long 
Rest, you can play a song on a Musical Instrument 
with which you have proficiency and give Heroic 
Inspiration to allies who hear the song. The number 
of allies you can affect in this way equals your Pro- 
ficiency Bonus. 


SAVAGE ATTACKER 

Origin Feat 

You've trained to deal particularly damaging 
strikes. Once per turn when you hit a target with 
a weapon, you can roll the weapon's damage dice 
twice and use either roll against the target. 


SKILLED 
Origin Feat 


You gain proficiency in any combination of three 
skills or tools of your choice. 
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once. 


CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 


ee ee 


—e 


У: sl 


TAVERN BRAWLER 

Origin Feat 

You gain the following benefits. : 
Enhanced Unarmed Strike. When you hit with 

your Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can 

deal Bludgeoning damage equal to 1d4 plus your 

Strength modifier instead of the normal damage of 


an Unarmed Strike. 

Damage Rerolls. Whenever you roll a damage die 
for your Unarmed Strike, you can reroll the die if it 
rolls a 1, and you must use the new roll. 

Improvised Weaponry. You have proficiency with 
improvised weapons. 

Push. When you hit a creature with an Unarmed 
Strike as part of the Attack action on your turn, you 
can deal damage to the target and also push it 5 feet 
away from you. You can use this benefit only once 


per turn. 


TOUGH 

Origin Feat 

Your Hit Point maximum increases by an amount 
equal to twice your character level when you gain 
this feat. Whenever you gain a character level 
thereafter, your Hit Point maximum increases by an 
additional 2 Hit Points. 


GENERAL FEATS 


These feats are in the General category. 


ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 

General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 

Increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or 

increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. This 

feat can't increase an ability score above 20. 
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once. 


ACTOR 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Charisma 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Charisma 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Impersonation. While you're disguised as a real or 
fictional person, you have Advantage on Charisma 
(Deception or Performance) checks to convince 
others that you are that person. 

Mimicry. You can mimic the sounds of other crea- 
tures, including speech. A creature that hears the 
mimicry must succeed on a Wisdom (Insight) check 
to determine the effect is faked (DC 8 plus your 
Charisma modifier and Proficiency Bonus). 


CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 


ATHLETE 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or 


Dexterity 13+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Climb Speed. You gain a Climb Speed equal to your 


Speed. 
Hop Up. When you have the Prone condition, you 


can right yourself with only 5 feet of movement. 
Jumping. You can make a running Long or High 
Jump after moving only 5 feet. 


CHARGER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4*, Strength or 
Dexterity 13+) 
You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 
Improved Dash. When you take the Dash action, 
your Speed increases by 10 feet for that action. 
Charge Attack. If you move at least 10 feet in a 
straight line toward a target immediately before hit- 
ting it with a melee attack roll as part of the Attack 
action, choose one of the following effects: gain a 
1d8 bonus to the attack's damage roll, or push the 
target up to 10 feet away if it is no more than one 
size larger than you. You can use this benefit only 
once on each of your turns. 


CHEF 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution 
or Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Cook's Utensils. You gain proficiency with Cook's 
Utensils if you don't already have it. 

Replenishing Meal. As part of a Short Rest, you 
can cook special food if you have ingredients and 
Cook's Utensils on hand. You can prepare enough 
of this food for a number of creatures equal to 4 
plus your Proficiency Bonus. At the end of the Short 
Rest, any creature who eats the food and spends 
one or more Hit Dice to regain Hit Points regains an 
extra 1d8 Hit Points. 

Bolstering Treats. With 1 hour of work or when 
you finish a Long Rest, you can cook a number of 
treats equal to your Proficiency Bonus if you have 
ingredients and Cook's Utensils on hand. These spe- 
cial treats last 8 hours after being made. A creature 
can use a Bonus Action to eat опе о! those treats 
to gain a number of Temporary Hii Points equal to 
your Proficiency Bonus. 


"E 


CROSSBOW EXPERT 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4*, Dexterity 134) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Ignore Loading. You ignore the Loading property 
of the Hand Crossbow, Heavy Crossbow, and Light 
Crossbow (all called crossbows elsewhere in this 
feat). If you're holding one of them, you can load a 
piece of ammunition into it even if you lack a free 
hand. 

Firing in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy 
doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls 
with crossbows. 

Dual Wielding. When you make the extra attack 
of the Light property, you can add your ability 
modifier to the damage of the extra attack if that at- 
tack is with a crossbow that has the Light property 
and you aren't already adding that modifier to the 
damage. 


CRUSHER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Constitution score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Push. Once per turn, when you hit a creature with 
an attack that deals Bludgeoning damage, you can 
move it 5 feet to an unoccupied space if the target is 
no more than one size larger than you. 

Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit 
that deals Bludgeoning damage to a creature, attack 
rolls against that creature have Advantage until the 
start of your next turn. 


DEFENSIVE DUELIST 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Parry. If you're holding a Finesse weapon and 
another creature hits you with a melee attack, you 
can take a Reaction to add your Proficiency Bonus 
to your Armor Class, potentially causing the attack 
to miss you. You gain this bonus to your AC against 
melee attacks until the start of your next turn. 


DUAL WIELDER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or 
Dexterity 13+) 

You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Enhanced Dual Wielding. When you take the At- 
tack action on your turn and attack with a weapon 
that has the Light property, you can make one extra 
attack as a Bonus Action later on the same turn 
with a different weapon, which must be a Melee 
weapon that lacks the Two-Handed property. You 
don't add your ability modifier to the extra attack’s 
damage unless that modifier is negative. 

Quick Draw. You can draw or stow two weap- 
ons that lack the Two-Handed property when you 
would normally be able to draw or stow only one. 


DURABLE 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 


Defy Death. You have Advantage on Death Saving 
Throws. 


Speedy Recovery. As a Bonus Action, you can ex- 
pend one of your Hit Point Dice, roll the die, and 
regain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll. 


ELEMENTAL ADEPT 


General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Spellcasting or Pact 
Magic Feature) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, toa maximum of 
20. 

Energy Mastery. Choose one of the following dam- 
age types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. 
Spells you cast ignore Resistance to damage of the 
chosen type. In addition, when you roll damage for 
a spell you cast that deals damage of that type, you 
can treat any 1 on a damage die as a 2. 

Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once, 
but you must choose a different damage type each 
time for Energy Mastery. 


CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 


203 


————V M Ó— "79 С. , ы 


FEY-TOUCHED 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 
Your exposure to the Feywild’s magic grants you 


the following benefits. І 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 


Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 


20. 
Fey Magic. Choose one level 1 spell from the Divi- 


nation or Enchantment school of magic. You always 
have that spell and the Misty Step spell prepared. 
You can cast each of these spells without expending 
a spell slot. Once you cast either spell in this way, 
you can't cast that spell in this way again until you 
finish a Long Rest. You can also cast these spells us- 
ing spell slots you have of the appropriate level. The 
spells' spellcasting ability is the ability increased by 
this feat. 


GRAPPLER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4*, Strength or 
Dexterity 13+) 

You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Punch and Grab. When you hit a creature with an 
Unarmed Strike as part of the Attack action on your 
turn, you can use both the Damage and the Grapple 
option. You can use this benefit only once per turn. 

Attack Advantage. You have Advantage on attack 
rolls against a creature Grappled by you. 

Fast Wrestler. Your Speed isn't halved when you 
move a creature Grappled by you if the creature is 
your size or smaller. 


GREAT WEAPON MASTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Heavy Weapon Mastery. When you hit a creature 
with a weapon that has the Heavy property as part 
of the Attack action on your turn, you can cause 
the weapon to deal extra damage to the target. The 
extra damage equals your Proficiency Bonus. 

Hew. Immediately after you score a Critical Hit 
with a Melee weapon or reduce a creature to 0 Hit 
Points with one, you can make one attack with the 
same weapon as a Bonus Action. 


HEAVILY ARMORED 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Medium Armor 
Training) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution 
or Strength score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Armor Training. You gain training with Heavy 
armor. 


HEAVY ARMOR MASTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Heavy Armor 
Training) 
You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution 
or Strength score by 1, toa maximum of 20. 
Damage Reduction. When you're hit by an attack 
while you're wearing Heavy armor, any Bludgeon- 
ing, Piercing, and Slashing damage dealt to you by 
that attack is reduced by an amount equal to your 
Proficiency Bonus. 


INSPIRING LEADER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Wisdom or 
Charisma 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Wisdom or 
Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Bolstering Performance. When you finish a Short 
or Long Rest, you can give an inspiring perfor- 
mance: a speech, song, or dance. When you do so, 
choose up to six allies (which can include yourself) 
within 30 feet of yourself who witness the perfor- 
mance. The chosen creatures each gain Temporary 
Hit Points equal to your character level plus the 
modifier of the ability you increased with this feat. 


WAYNE ENCLAND 


KEEN MIND 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Intelligence 13+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Lore Knowledge. Choose one of the following 
skills: Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or 
Religion. If you lack proficiency in the chosen skill, 
you gain proficiency in it, and if you already have 
proficiency in it, you gain Expertise in it. 

Quick Study. You can take the Study action as a 
Bonus Action. 


LIGHTLY ARMORED 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Armor Training. You gain training with Light ar- 
mor and Shields. 


MAGE SLAYER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Concentration Breaker. When you damage a 
creature that is concentrating, it has Disadvan- 
tage on the saving throw it makes to maintain 
Concentration. 

Guarded Mind. If you fail an Intelligence, a Wis- 
dom, or a Charisma saving throw, you can cause 
yourself to succeed instead. Once you use this ben- 
efit, you can’t use it again until you finish a Short or 
Long Rest. 


MARTIAL WEAPON TRAINING 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 
Weapon Proficiency. You gain proficiency with 
Martial weapons. 


MEDIUM ARMOR MASTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Medium Armor 
Training) 


You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 


Dexterous Wearer. While you're wearing Medium 
armor, you can add 3, rather than 2, to your AC if 
you have a Dexterity score of 16 or higher. 


MODERATELY ARMORED 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4«, Light Armor 
Training) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 


Armor Training. You gain training with Medium 
armor. 


MOUNTED COMBATANT 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength, 


Dexterity, or Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 
20. 


Mounted Strike. While mounted, you have Advan- 
tage on attack rolls against any unmounted crea- 
ture within 5 feet of your mount that is at least one 
size smaller than the mount. 

Leap Aside. If your mount is subjected to an effect 
that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to 
take only half damage, it instead takes no damage if 
it succeeds on the saving throw and only half dam- 
age if it fails. For your mount to gain this benefit, 
you must be riding it, and neither of you can have 
the Incapacitated condition. 

Veer. While mounted, you can force an attack that 
hits your mount to hit you instead if you don’t have 
the Incapacitated condition. 


OBSERVANT 


General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Intelligence or 
Wisdom 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence 
or Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Keen Observer. Choose one of the following skills: 
Insight, Investigation, or Perception. If you lack pro- 
ficiency with the chosen skill, you gain proficiency 
in it, and if you already have proficiency in it, you 
gain Expertise in it. 

Quick Search. You can take the Search action as a 
Bonus Action. 


CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 205 


шч LT 


Ca 0 ERIS GC: 


| 


PIERCER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Puncture. Once per turn, when you hit a creature 
with an attack that deals Piercing damage, you can 
reroll one of the attack's damage dice, and you must 
use the new roll. 

Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit 
that deals Piercing damage to a creature, you can 
roll one additional damage die when determining 
the extra Piercing damage the target takes. 


POISONER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or 
Intelligence score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Potent Poison. When you make a damage roll that 
deals Poison damage, it ignores Resistance to Poison 
damage. 

Brew Poison. You gain proficiency with the Poi- 
soner's Kit. With 1 hour of work using such a kit and 
expending 50 GP worth of materials, you can create 
a number of poison doses equal to your Proficiency 
Bonus. As a Bonus Action, you can apply a poison 
dose to a weapon or piece of ammunition. Once 
applied, the poison retains its potency for 1 minute 
or until you hit with the poisoned item, whichever 
is shorter. When a creature takes damage from 
the poisoned item, that creature must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus the modifier 
of the ability increased by this feat and your Profi- 
ciency Bonus) or take 2d8 Poison damage and have 
the Poisoned condition until the end of your next 
turn. 


POLEARM MASTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or 
Dexterity 13+) 

You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or 
Strength score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Pole Strike. Immediately after you take the Attack 
action and attack with a Quarterstaff, a Spear, ora 
weapon that has the Heavy and Reach properties, 
you can use a Bonus Action to make a melee attack 
with the opposite end of the weapon. The weapon 
deals Bludgeoning damage, and the weapon’s dam- 
age die for this attack is a d4. 

Reactive Strike. While you're holding a Quarter- 
staff, a Spear, or a weapon that has the Heavy and 
Reach properties, you can take a Reaction to make 
one melee attack against a creature that enters the 


reach you have with that weapon. 


RESILIENT 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Choose one ability in which 
you lack saving throw proficiency. Increase the cho- 
sen ability score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Saving Throw Proficiency. You gain saving throw 
proficiency with the chosen ability. 


RITUAL CASTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+; Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 
20. 

Ritual Spells. Choose a number of level 1 spells 
equal to your Proficiency Bonus that have the Rit- 
ual tag. You always have those spells prepared, and 
you can cast them with any spell slots you have. The 


E ~~ 


spells' spelicusting ability is the ability increased 
by this feat. Whenever your Proficiency Bonus in- 
creases thereafter, you can add an additional level 
1spell with the Ritual tag to the spells always pre- 
pared with this feature. 

Quick Ritual. With this benefit, you can cast a 
Ritual spell that you have prepared using its regular 
casting time rather than the extended time for a Rit- 
ual. Doing so doesn't require a spell slot. Once you 
cast the spell in this way, you can't use this benefit 
again until you finish a Long Rest. 


SENTINEL 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or 
Dexterity 13+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Guardian. Immediately after a creature within 5 
feet of you takes the Disengage action or hits a tar- 
get other than you with an attack, you can make an 
Opportunity Attack against that creature. 

Halt. When you hit a creature with an Opportu- 
nity Attack, the creature's Speed becomes 0 for the 
rest of the current turn. 


SHADOW-TOUCHED 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


Your exposure to the Shadowfell’s magic grants you 
the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 
20. 

Shadow Magic. Choose one level 1 spell from the 
Illusion or Necromancy school of magic. You always 
have that spell and the Invisibility spell prepared. 
You can cast each of these spells without expending 
a spell slot. Once you cast either spell in this way, 
you can't cast that spell in this way again until you 
finish a Long Rest. You can also cast these spells us- 
ing spell slots you have of the appropriate level. The 
spells’ spellcasting ability is the ability increased by 
this feat. 


SHARPSHOOTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Bypass Cover. Your ranged attacks with weapons 
ignore Half Cover and Three-Quarters Cover. 


LAND 


WAYNE ЕМС 


$ 
y 
i 
TEN 
t 
X 


fu 


Firing in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy 
doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls 
with Ranged weapons. 

Long Shots. Attacking at long range doesn't im- 


pose Disadvantage on your attack rolls with Ranged 
weapons. 


SHIELD MASTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Shield Training) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Shield Bash. If you attack a creature within 5 feet 
of you as part of the Attack action and hit with a 
Melee weapon, you can immediately bash the target 
with your Shield if it’s equipped, forcing the target || 
to make a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus your | 
Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus). Оп a 
failed save, you either push the target 5 feet from 
you or cause it to have the Prone condition (your 
choice). You can use this benefit only once on each 
of your turns. 

Interpose Shield. If you're subjected to an effect 


that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to 

take only half damage, you can take a Reaction to | 
take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw i 
and are holding a Shield. й 


SKILL EXPERT 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4«) 


You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of fj 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 20. i 
Skill Proficiency. You gain proficiency in one skill | 
of your choice. ; 
Expertise. Choose one skill in which you have pro- 
ficiency but lack Expertise. You gain Expertise with 
that skill. 
1 


CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 


Mb. wa АШ, м doe ы 


SKULKER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. | 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity 
score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 
Blindsight. You have Blindsight with a range of 10 


feet. 
Fog of War. You exploit the distractions of battle, 


gaining Advantage on any Dexterity (Stealth) check 

you make as part of the Hide action during combat. 
Sniper. If you make an attack roll while hidden 

and the roll misses, making the attack roll doesn't 


reveal your location. 


SLASHER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4«) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Hamstring. Once per turn when you hit a creature 
with an attack that deals Slashing damage, you can 
reduce the Speed of that creature by 10 feet until 
the start of your next turn. 

Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit 
that deals Slashing damage to a creature, it has 
Disadvantage on attack rolls until the start of your 
next turn. 


SPEEDY 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity or 
Constitution 13+) 


You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or 
Constitution score by 1, toa maximum of 20. 
Speed Increase. Your Speed increases by 10 feet. 
Dash over Difficult Terrain. When you take the 
Dash action on your turn, Difficult Terrain doesn't 
cost you extra movement for the rest of that turn. 
Agile Movement. Opportunity Attacks have Disad- 
vantage against you. 


SPELL SNIPER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Spellcasting or Pact 


Magic Feature) 


You gain the following benefits. 
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 


20. 
Bypass Cover. Your attack rolls for spells ignore 


Half Cover and Three-Quarters Cover. 
Casting in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy 
doesn’t impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls 


with spells. 

Increased Range. When you cast a spell that has a 
range of at least 10 feet and requires you to make an 
attack roll, you can increase the spell’s range by 60 


feet. 


'TELEKINETIC 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 
20. 

Minor Telekinesis. You learn the Mage Hand spell. 
You can cast it without Verbal or Somatic compo- 
nents, you can make the spectral hand Invisible, and 
its range increases by 30 feet when you cast it. The 
spell's spellcasting ability is the ability increased by 
this feat. 

Telekinetic Shove. As a Bonus Action, you can tele- 
kinetically shove one creature you can see within 
30 feet of yourself. When you do so, the target must 
succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus the 
ability modifier of the score increased by this feat 
and your Proficiency Bonus) or be moved 5 feet to- 
ward or away from you. 


TELEPATHIC 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 
20. 

Telepathic Utterance. You can speak telepathically 
to any creature you can see within 60 feet of your- 
self. Your telepathic utterances are in a language 
you know, and the creature understands you only 
if it knows that language. Your communication 
doesn't give the creature the ability to respond to 
you telepathically. 


E 
5 
z 
E 
3 


d 


Detect Thoughts. You always have the Detect 
Thoughts spell prepared. You can cast it without a 
spell slot or spell components, and you must finish 
a Long Rest before you can cast it in this way again. 
You can also cast it using spell slots you have of the 
appropriate level. Your spellcasting ability for the 
spell is the ability increased by this feat. 


WAR CASTER 

General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Spellcasting or Pact 
Magic Feature) 

You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 
20. 

Concentration. You have Advantage on Consti- 
tution saving throws that you make to maintain 
Concentration. 

Reactive Spell. When a creature provokes an Op- 
portunity Attack from you by leaving your reach, 
you can take a Reaction to cast a spell at the crea- 
ture rather than making an Opportunity Attack. 
The spell must have a casting time of one action and 
must target only that creature. 

Somatic Components. You can perform the So- 
matic components of spells even when you have 
weapons or a Shield in one or both hands. 


WEAPON MASTER 
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20. 

Mastery Property. Your training with weapons al- 
lows you to use the mastery property of one kind of 
Simple or Martial weapon of your choice, provided 
you have proficiency with it. Whenever you finish 
a Long Rest, you can change the kind of weapon to 
another eligible kind. 


FIGHTING STYLE FEATS 
These feats are in the Fighting Style category. 


ARCHERY 
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 


You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with 
Ranged weapons. 


BLIND FIGHTING 
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
You have Blindsight with a range of 10 feet. 


DEFENSE 
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Е ighting Style Feature) 
While you're wearing Light, Medium, or Heavy ar- 
mor, you gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class. 

DUELING 

Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
When you're holding a Melee weapon in one hand 


and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to dam- 
age rolls with that weapon. 


GREAT WEAPON FIGHTING 

Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
When you roll damage for an attack you make with 
a Melee weapon that you are holding with two 
hands, you can treat any 1 or 2 on a damage die as a 
3. The weapon must have the Two-Handed or Versa- 
tile property to gain this benefit. 


INTERCEPTION 

Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
When a creature you can see hits another creature 
within 5 feet of you with an attack roll, you can 
take a Reaction to reduce the damage dealt to the 
target by 1d10 plus your Proficiency Bonus. You 
must be holding a Shield or a Simple or Martial 
weapon to use this Reaction. 


PROTECTION 

Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
When a creature you can see attacks a target other 
than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can take a 
Reaction to interpose your Shield if you're holding 
one. You impose Disadvantage on the triggering 
attack roll and all other attack rolls against the tar- 
get until the start of your next turn if you remain 
within 5 feet of the target. 


THROWN WEAPON FIGHTING 
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
When you hit with a ranged attack roll using a 
weapon that has the Thrown property, you gain a 
+2 bonus to the damage roll. 


Two-WEAPON FIGHTING 
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
When you make an extra attack as a result of using 
a weapon that has the Light property, you can add 
your ability modifier to the damage of that attack if 
you aren't already adding it to the damage. 


UNARMED FIGHTING 
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature) 
When you hit with your Unarmed Strike and deal 
damage, you can deal Bludgeoning damage equal 
to 1d6 plus your Strength modifier instead of the 
normal damage of an Unarmed Strike. If you aren't 
holding any weapons or a Shield when you make the 
attack roll, the d6 becomes a d8. 

At the start of each of your turns, you can deal 
1d4 Bludgeoning damage to one creature Grap- 
pled by you. 


Epic BOON FEATS 
These feats are in the Epic Boon category. 


BOON OF COMBAT PROWESS 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Peerless Aim. When you miss with an attack roll, 
you can hit instead. Once you use this benefit, you 
can't use it again until the start of your next turn. 


BOON OF DIMENSIONAL TRAVEL 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, toa maximum of 30. 
Blink Steps. Immediately after you take the Attack 
action or the Magic action, you can teleport up to 
30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see. 


BooN or ENERGY RESISTANCE 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Energy Resistances. You gain Resistance to two 
of the following damage types of your choice: Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, Necrotic, Poison, Psychic, 
Radiant, or Thunder. Whenever you finish a Long 
Rest, you can change your choices. 

Energy Redirection. When you take damage of 
one of the types chosen for the Energy Resistances 
benefit, you can take a Reaction to direct damage 
of the same type toward another creature you can 
see within 60 feet of yourself that isn't behind Total 
Cover. If you do so, that creature must succeed on 
a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Constitu- 
tion modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take dam- 
age equal to 2d12 plus your Constitution modifier. 


BOON OF FATE 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Improve Fate. When you or another creature 
within 60 feet of you succeeds on or fails a D20 
Test, you can roll 2d4 and apply the total rolled as a 
bonus or penalty to the d20 roll. Once you use this 
benefit, you can't use it again until you roll Initiative 
or finish a Short or Long Rest. 


BOON OF FORTITUDE 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Fortified Health. Your Hit Point maximum in- 
creases by 40. In addition, whenever you regain Hit 
Points, you can regain additional Hit Points equal to 
your Constitution modifier. Once you've regained 
these additional Hit Points, you can't do so again 
until the start of your next turn. 


BOON OF !RRESISTIBLE OFFENSE 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or 
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Overcome Defenses. The Bludgeoning, Piercing, 
and Slashing damage you deal always ignores 
Resistance. 

Overwhelming Strike. When you roll a 20 on the 
d20 for an attack roll, you can deal extra damage 
to the target equal to the ability score increased by 
this feat. The extra damage's type is the same as the 
attack's type. 


BOON OF RECOVERY 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, toa maximum of 30. 

Last Stand. When you would be reduced to 0 
Hit Points, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead and 
regain a number of Hit Points equal to half your 
Hit Point maximum. Once you use this benefit, you 
can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest. 

Recover Vitality. You have a pool of ten 410$. As a 
Bonus Action, you can expend dice from the pool, 
roll those dice, and regain a number of Hit Points 
equal to the roll's total. You regain all the expended 
dice when you finish a Long Rest. 


BooN or SKILL 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

All-Around Adept. You gain proficiency in all 
skills. 

Expertise. Choose one skill in which you lack Ex- 
pertise. You gain Expertise in that skill. 


BOON OF SPEED 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Escape Artist, As a Bonus Action, you can take 
the Disengage action, which also ends the Grappled 
condition on you. 

Quickness. Your Speed increases by 30 feet. 


BOON or SPELL RECALL 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+, Spellcasting 
Feature) 
You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, 


Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 
30. 


Free Casting. Whenever you cast a spell with a 
level 1-4 spell slot, roll 1d4. If the number you roll is 
the same as the slot's level, the slot isn't expended. 


BOON OF THE NIGHT SPIRIT 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Merge with Shadows. While within Dim Light or 
Darkness, you can give yourself the Invisible condi- 
tion as a Bonus Action. The condition ends on you 
immediately after you take an action, a Bonus Ac- 
tion, or a Reaction. 

Shadowy Form. While within Dim Light or Dark- 
ness, you have Resistance to all damage except Psy- 
chic and Radiant. 


BOON OF TRUESIGHT 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 


You gain the following benefits. 

Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of 
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 

Truesight. You have Truesight with a range of 60 
feet. 


| 
| 


2II 


CHAPTER 5 | FEATS 


IN THE SKIES OF EBERRO 
INVENTOR Vi AND HER F 


THAT BURNS WITH GREEN 
1 


FLAME: 


O MONTEIRO 


"—á— 


difference between success and failure for 


HE RIGHT EQUIPMENT CAN MAKE THE 
| | adventurers. This chapter provides rules апа 


prices for weapons, armor, and other kinds of equip- 


ment that characters might purchase or find. The 
DM lets you know if a shop has an item for sale and 
whether it's available at the listed price. 


COINS 


Characters often find coins on their adventures 
and can spend those coins in shops, inns, and other 
businesses. Coins come in different denominations 
based on the relative worth of their material. The 
Coin Values table lists coins and how much they're 


worth relative to the Gold Piece, which is the game's 


main coin. For example, 100 Copper Pieces are 
worth 1 Gold Piece. 

A coin weighs about a third of an ounce, so fifty 
coins weigh a pound. 


CoIN VALUES 


Coin Value in GP 

Copper Piece (CP) 1/100 

Silver Piece (SP) 1/10 

Electrum Piece (EP) 1/2 

Gold Piece (GP) 1 

Platinum Piece (PP) 10 
WEAPONS 


The Weapons table in this section shows the game's 


main weapons. The table lists the cost and weight of 


each weapon, as well as the following details: 


Category. Every weapon falls into a category: Sim- 
ple or Martial. Weapon proficiencies are usually 
tied to one of these categories. For example, you 
might have proficiency with Simple weapons. 

Melee or Ranged. A weapon is classified as either 
Melee or Ranged. A Melee weapon is used to 
attack a target within 5 feet, whereas a Ranged 
weapon is used to attack at a greater distance. 


а ——————————— Ai. 


SELLING EQUIPMENT 


Equipment fetches half its cost when sold. In con- 
trast, trade goods and valuables—like gems and 


art objects——retain their full value in the market- —— 


place. The Dungeon Master's Guide has pr ces for 
magic items. К S 


Damage. The table lists the amount of damage a 
weapon deals when an attacker hits with it as well 
as the type of that damage. 


Properties. Any properties a weapon has are listed 


in the Properties column. Each property is defined 
in the "Properties" section. 


Mastery. Each weapon has a mastery property, 
which is defined in the "Mastery Properties" sec- 
tion later in this chapter. To use that property, you 
must have a feature that lets you use it. 


WEAPON PROFICIENCY 


Anyone can wield a weapon, but you must have 
proficiency with it to add your Proficiency Bonus to 
an attack roll you make with it. A player character's 
features can provide weapon proficiencies. A mon- 
ster is proficient with any weapon in its stat block. 


PROPERTIES 


Here are definitions of the properties in the Proper- 
ties column of the Weapons table. 


AMMUNITION 

You can use a weapon that has the Ammunition 
property to make a ranged attack only if you have 
ammunition to fire from it. The type of ammunition 
required is specified with the weapon's range. Each 
attack expends one piece of ammunition. Drawing 
the ammunition is part of the attack (you need a 
free hand to load a one-handed weapon). After a 
fight, you can spend 1 minute to recover half the 
ammunition (round down) you used in the fight; the 
rest is lost. 


FINESSE 

When making an attack with a Finesse weapon, use 
your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier 
for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the 
same modifier for both rolls. 


HEAVY 

You have Disadvantage on attack rolls with a Heavy 
weapon if it's a Melee weapon and your Strength 
score isn't at least 13 or if it’s a Ranged weapon and 
your Dexterity score isn’t at least 13. 


LIGHT 

When you take the Attack action on your turn and 
attack with a Light weapon, you can make one extra 
attack as a Bonus Action later on the same turn. 
That extra attack must be made with a different 


CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT { 213. 


el S lI]. — OEC 
IMPROVISED WEAPONS 
If you use an object—such as a table leg, frying 
pan, or bottle—as a makeshift weapon, see Im- 
provised Weapons" in the rules glossary. Also see 
those rules if you wield a weapon in an unusual 
way, such as using a Ranged weapon to make a 


melee attack. 


—————————————— 


Light weapon, and you don't add your ability mod- 
ifier to the extra attack's damage unless that modi- 
fier is negative. For example, you can attack with a 
Shortsword in one hand and a Dagger in the other 
using the Attack action and a Bonus Action, but you 
don't add your Strength or Dexterity modifier to the 
damage roll of the Bonus Action unless that modi- 
fier is negative. 


LOADING 

You can fire only one piece of ammunition from a 
Loading weapon when you use an action, a Bonus 
Action, or a Reaction to fire it, regardless of the 
number of attacks you can normally make. 


RANGE 

A Range weapon has a range in parentheses after 
the Ammunition or Thrown property. The range 
lists two numbers. The first is the weapon's normal 
range in feet, and the second is the weapon's long 
range. When attacking a target beyond normal 
range, you have Disadvantage on the attack roll. 
You can't attack a target beyond the long range. 


REACH 

A Reach weapon adds 5 feet to your reach when you 
attack with it, as well as when determining your 
reach for Opportunity Attacks with it. 


THROWN 

If a weapon has the Thrown property, you can 
throw the weapon to make a ranged attack, and 
you can draw that weapon as part of the attack. If 
the weapon is a Melee weapon, use the same ability 
modifier for the attack and damage rolls that you 
use for a melee attack with that weapon. 


Two-HANDED 
A Two-Handed weapon requires two hands when 
you attack with it. 


VERSATILE 

A Versatile weapon can be used with one or two 
hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with 
the property. The weapon deals that damage when 
used with two hands to make a melee attack. 


CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


mr ча a RA. o £ 


MASTERY PROPERTIES _ | 
Each weapon has a mastery property, which is us- 
able only by a character who has a feature, such as 


Weapon Mastery, that unlocks the property for the 
character. The properties are defined below. 


CLEAVE 

If you hit a creature with a melee attack roll using 
this weapon, you can make a melee attack roll with 
the weapon against a second creature within 5 feet 
of the first that is also within your reach. On a hit, 
the second creature takes the weapon's damage, 
but don't add your ability modifier to that damage 
unless that modifier is negative. You can make this 
extra attack only once per turn. 


GRAZE 

If your attack roll with this weapon misses a crea- 
ture, you can deal damage to that creature equal to 
the ability modifier you used to make the attack roll. 
This damage is the same type dealt by the weapon, 
and the damage can be increased only by increasing 
the ability modifier. 


NICK 

When you make the extra attack of the Light prop- 

erty, you can make it as part of the Attack action in- 
stead of as a Bonus Action. You can make this extra 
attack only once per turn. 


PusH 

If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can push 
the creature up to 10 feet straight away from your- 
self if it is Large or smaller. 


SAP 

If you hit a creature with this weapon, that creature 
has Disadvantage on its next attack roll before the 
start of your next turn. 


SLow 

If you hit a creature with this weapon and deal 
damage to it, you can reduce its Speed by 10 feet un- 
til the start of your next turn. If the creature is hit 
more than once by weapons that have this property, 
the Speed reduction doesn't exceed 10 feet. 


TOPPLE 

If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can 
force the creature to make a Constitution saving 
throw (DC 8 plus the ability modifier used to make 
the attack roll and your Proficiency Bonus). Ona 
failed save, the creature has the Prone condition. 


VEX 

If you hit a creature with this weapon and deal 
damage to the creature, you have Advantage on 
your next attack roll against that creature before 
the end of your next turn. 


КГ manne 


л ~~ 


П 
WEAPONS 
Name Damage Properties Mastery Weight ^ Cost | 
n ий к Bludgeoning Light | 
Club 2 1g | 
Dagger 1d4 Piercing Finesse, Light, Thrown (Range 20/60) WR Е " ; a $ 
Greatclub 1d8 Bludgeoning Two-Handed Push 10 Ib. 25Р \ 
Напдахе 146 Slashing Light, Thrown (Range 20/60) Vex 2 lb. 5 GP | 
Javelin 1d6 Piercing Thrown (Range 30/120) Slow 2 Ib. 5SP | 
Light Hammer 1d4 Bludgeoning Light, Thrown (Range 20/60) Nick 2 Ib. 2GP 
Mace 1d6 Bludgeoning — Sap 4 lb. 5GP | 
Quarterstaff 1d6 Bludgeoning Versatile (1d8) Topple 4 Ib. 25Р | 
Sickle 1d4 Slashing Light Nick 21b. 1GP | 
$реаг 146 Piercing Thrown (Range 20/60), Versatile (148) Sap 31b. TGP 
Simple Ranged Weapons 
Dart 1d4 Piercing Finesse, Thrown (Range 20/60) Vex 1416. SCP 
Light Crossbow 148 Piercing Ammunition (Range 80/320; Bolt), Loading, Slow 516. 25 GP 
Two-Handed 
Shortbow 1d6 Piercing Ammunition (Range 80/320; Arrow), Two-Handed Vex 21. 25 GP 
Sling 1d4 Bludgeoning Ammunition (Range 30/120; Bullet) Slow = 1SP 
Martial Melee Weapons 
Battleaxe 1d8 Slashing Versatile (1d10) Topple 4lb. 10GP 
Flail 1d8 Bludgeoning — Sap 21. 10GP 
Glaive 1d10 Slashing Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed Graze 6lb. 20GP 
Greataxe 1d12 Slashing Heavy, Two-Handed Cleave 7\Ь. 30GP 
Greatsword 2d6 Slashing Heavy, Two-Handed Graze 6lb. SOGP 
Halberd 1d10 Slashing Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed Cleave 61Ь. 20GP 
Lance 1d10 Piercing Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed (unless mounted) Topple 6 lb. 10GP 
Longsword 1d8 Slashing Versatile (1d10) Sap 3lb. 15GP 
Maul 2d6 Bludgeoning Heavy, Two-Handed Topple 10 lb. 10GP 
Morningstar 1d8 Piercing — Sap 4lb. 15GP 
Pike 1d10 Piercing Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed Push 18 Ib. 5GP 
Rapier 1d8 Piercing Finesse Vex 216. 25GP 
Scimitar 1d6 Slashing Finesse, Light Nick 3lb. 25GP 
Shortsword 1d6 Piercing Finesse, Light Vex 2lb. 10GP 
Trident 1d8 Piercing Thrown (Range 20/60), Versatile (1d10) Topple 4lb. 5GP 
Warhammer 1d8 Bludgeoning Versatile (1d10) Push Sib. 15GP 
War Pick 1d8 Piercing Versatile (1d10) Sap 2lb. SGP 
Whip 1d4 Slashing Finesse, Reach Slow ЗЫ: 26Р 
Martial Ranged Weapons 
Blowgun 1 Piercing Ammunition (Range 25/100; Needle), Loading Vex llb. 10GP 
Hand Crossbow 146 Piercing Ammunition (Range 30/120; Bolt), Light, Loading Мех 3b :3975!GP 
Heavy Crossbow 1d10 Piercing Ammunition (Range 100/400; Bolt), Heavy, Load- Push 18 lb. 50GP 
ing, Two-Handed t 
Longbow 1d8 Piercing Ammunition (Range 150/600; Arrow), Heavy, Slow 21b. 50GP | 
Two-Handed 
Musket 1d12 Piercing Ammunition (Range 40/120; Bullet), Loading, Slow 10 lb. 500 GP 
Two-Handed 
Pistol 1d10 Piercing Ammunition (Range 30/90; Bullet), Loading Vex 3 lb. 250 GP 


WEAPONS 


| SSS 


|| SIMPLE MELEE WEAPONS 


LiGHT HAMMER SICKLE f 


| D 26р 1GP j 
| Crus 
15P 
| | HANDAxE 
! sGP 
QUARTERSTAFF 
2 SP 
' 
DAGGER 
2 GP 
Mace 
5GP 
JAVELIN 
5 SP 
GnEATCLUB 
25Р 
| SIMPLE RANGED WEAPONS à 
Dart 
s CP 1 


SLING 


C 1SP 


SHORTBOW 
25 GP 


Licht CROSSBOW 
25 GP 


216 CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


T maian 
CH ur od vt 


SPEAR 


1GP 


re үүө лүн 


[2 


|| MART ^L MELEE WEAPONS 


SHORTSWORO 


MORNINGSTAR | 
10 GP 


15 GP 


Rapier 


Scimitar 


HatBERO 
20 GP 


GREATAXE 
30 GP 


| | 
11 | 
| GREATSWORD | 
| 5o GP WARHAMMER | { 
|| 15 GP B 
i 
| | TRIOENT 

| 5 GP 

Н yo el КЭЛ Col nm its 

| 

| LANCE Wuie 

| 10 GP 2GP 


LONGBOW 
50 GP 


| 
| 
| 
| MARTIAL RANGED WEAPONS 
| 
| 
| 


Heavy Crosssow 


BLowGuN 50 GP 


10 GP 


— 


PisroL 
250 GP 


. CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


peu 


SHIELDS 


PADDED ARMOR 
sGP 10 GP 


MEDIUM ARMOR 


М. 
ү 
! 
| 
| 


i 
l 


Hioe ARMOR 
10 GP 


Hace PLATE 
ARMOR 
750 GP 


CHAIN SHIRT 


50 GP 
BREASTPLATE 


4oo GP 


PLATE ARMOR 
1,500 GI? 


CHAIN MAIL 
15 GP. 


RING Мац. SPLINT ARMOR 
3o GP 200 GP 


218 CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


БИ 


ЖОЛУ? 
ARMOR | 
Armor Armor Class (AC) Strength Stealth Weight Cost | 
Light Armor (1 Minute to Don or Doff) M á | 
Padded Armor 11 + Dex modifier oS hme Disadvantage 8 Ib. 5 GP | 
Leather Armor 11 + Dexmodifer ME — 101b. — 10GP | 
Studded Leather Armor 12 + Dex modifier 25 ©. 13 Ib 45 GP | 
Medium Armor (5 Minutes to Don and 1 Minute to Do ij) aeq 
Hide Armor 12 + Dex modifier (max2)  — = 12 Ib. 10 GP 
Chain Shirt 13 + Dex modifier (max 2)  — = 20 Ib. 50 GP 
Scale Mail 14 + Dex modifier (max 2) — Disadvantage 45 |b. 50 GP 
Breastplate 14 + Dex modifier (max 2) — = 201b. 400 GP 
Half Plate Armor 15 + Dex modifier (max 2) — Disadvantage 40 lb. 750 GP 

Heavy Armor (10 Minutes to Don and 5 Minutes to Doff) | 
Ring Mail 14 — Disadvantage 40 Ib. 30 GP | 
Chain Mail 16 Str 13 Disadvantage 55 Ib. 75 GP | 
Splint Armor 7 Str 15 Disadvantage 60 lb. 200 GP | 
Plate Armor 18 Str 15 Disadvantage 651b. 1,500 GP 

Shield 
Shield +2 — — 6 Ib. 10 GP 

ARMOR LIGHT, MEDIUM, OR HEAVY ARMOR 


The Armor table lists the game’s main armor. The 
table includes the cost and weight of armor, as well 
as the following details: 


Category. Every type of armor falls into a category: 
Light, Medium, or Heavy. The category deter- 
mines how long it takes to don or doff the armor 
(as shown in the table). 

Armor Class (AC). The table’s Armor Class column 
tells you what your base AC is when you wear a 
type of armor. For example, if you wear Leather 
Armor, your base AC is 11 plus your Dexterity 
modifier, whereas your AC is 16 in Chain Mail. 

Strength. If the table shows a Strength score in the 
Strength column for an armor type, that armor 
reduces the wearer's speed by 10 feet unless the 
wearer has a Strength score equal to or higher 
than the listed score. 

Stealth. If the table shows “Disadvantage” in the 
Stealth column for an armor type, the wearer has 
Disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. 


ARMOR TRAINING 0 
Anyone can don armor or hold a Shield, but only 
those with training can use them effectively, as ex- 
plained below. A character's class and other features 


determine the character's armor training. A mon- 
ster has training with any armor in its stat block. 


If you wear Light, Medium, or Heavy armor and 
lack training with it, you have Disadvantage on any 
D20 Test that involves Strength or Dexterity, and 
you can't cast spells. 


SHIELD 

You gain the Armor Class benefit of a Shield only if 
you have training with it. 

ONE AT A TIME 


A creature can wear only one suit of armor at a 
time and wield only one Shield at a time. 


VARIANT: EQUIPMENT SizES 


In most campaigns, you can use or wear any 
equipment that you find on your adventures, 
within the bounds of common sense. For ex- 
ample, an orc adventurer won't fit in a halfling's 
Leather Armor, and a cloud giant's robe would be 
far too large for a gnome. 

The DM can impose more realism. For example, 
a suit of Plate Armor made for one human might 
not fit another one without significant alterations, 
and a guard's uniform might be visibly ill-fitting 
when an adventurer tries to wear it as a disguise. 

Using this variant, when adventurers find ar- 
mor, clothing, and similar items that are made to 
be worn, they might need to visit a smith, a tailor, 
а leatherworker, or a similar expert to make the - 
item wearable. The cost for such work is 1d4 x10 
percent of the market price of the item. 


Cum a ttc i 


CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 4 219 


v————— — —s— — 


‘TOOLS 

A tool helps you make specialized ability checks, 

craft certain items, or both. A tool’s description 

includes the tool's cost and weight, as well as the 
following entries: 

Ability. This entry lists the ability to use when 
making an ability check with the tool. 

Utilize. This entry lists things you can do with the 
tool when you take the Utilize action. You can do 
one of those things each time you take the action. 
This entry also provides the DC for the action. 

Craft. This entry lists what, if anything, you can 
craft with the tool. For crafting rules, see “Craft- 
ing Equipment” later in the chapter. 

Variants. This entry appears if the tool has vari- 
ants, which are listed. Each requires a separate 


proficiency. 


TOOL PROFICIENCY 
If you have proficiency with a tool, add your Pro- 
ficiency Bonus to any ability check you make that 
uses the tool. If you have proficiency in a skill that's 
used with that check, you have Advantage on the 
check too. 

Your features might give you proficiency with a 
tool. A monster has proficiency with any tool in its 
stat block. 


ARTISAN’S TOOLS 

Artisan’s Tools are each focused on crafting items 
and pursuing a trade. Each of these tools requires a 
separate proficiency. 


ALCHEMIST’s SUPPLIES (50 GP) 
Ability: Intelligence Weight: 8 Ib. 
Utilize: Identify a substance (DC 15), or start a fire 


(DC 15) 
Craft: Acid, Alchemist's Fire, Component Pouch, Oil, 
Paper, Perfume 


BREWER's SUPPLIES (20 GP) 

Ability: Intelligence Weight: 9 Ib. 

Utilize: Detect poisoned drink (DC 15), or identify al- 
cohol (DC 10) 

Craft: Antitoxin 


pu M M — — 


CALLIGRAPHER'S SUPPLIES (10 GP) 

Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 Ib. 

Utilize: Write text with impressive flourishes that 
guard against forgery (DC 15) 

Craft: Ink, Spell Scroll 


CARPENTER’S TOOLS (8 GP) 


Ability: Strength Weight: 6 Ib. 

Utilize: Seal or pry open a door or container (DC 20) 

Craft: Club, Greatclub, Quarterstaff, Barrel, Chest, 
Ladder, Pole, Portable Ram, Torch 


CARTOGRAPHER'S TOOLS (15 GP) 
Ability: Wisdom Weight: 6 Ib. 
Utilize: Draft a map of a small area (DC 15) 
Craft: Map 


ConBLER's TOOLs (5 GP) 
Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 Ib. 
Utilize: Modify footwear to give Advantage on the 


wearer's next Dexterity (Acrobatics) check (DC 10) 


Craft: Climber's Kit 


Cook's UTENSILS (1 GP) 

Ability: Wisdom Weight: 8 Ib. 

Utilize: Improve food's flavor (DC 10), or detect 
spoiled or poisoned food (DC 15) 

Craft: Rations 


GLASSBLOWER's TOOLS (30 GP) 
Ability: Intelligence Weight: 5 Ib. 


Utilize: Discern what a glass object held in the past 24 


hours (DC 15) 


Craft: Glass Bottle, Magnifying Glass, Spyglass, Vial 


JEWELER’S TOOLS (25 GP) 
Ability: Intelligence Weight: 2 Ib. 
Utilize: Discern a gem's value (DC 15) 
Craft: Arcane Focus, Holy Symbol 


LEATHERWORKER'S TOOLS (5 GP) 
Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 lb. 
Utilize: Add a design to a leather item (DC 10) 


Craft: Sling, Whip, Hide Armor, Leather Armor, Stud- 
ded Leather Armor, Backpack, Crossbow Bolt Case, 
Map or Scroll Case, Parchment, Pouch, Quiver, Wa- 


terskin 


WAYNI CNCLAND 


p—— ÓÁÓÓ ~~ 


Mason’s TooLs (10 GP) 

Ability: Strength Weight: 8 lb. 

Utilize: Chisel a symbol or hole in stone (DC 10) 
Craft: Block and Tackle 


PAINTER's SuPPLIES (10 GP) 

Ability: Wisdom Weight: 5 Ib. 

Utilize: Paint a recognizable image of something 
you've seen (DC 10) 

Craft: Druidic Focus, Holy Symbol 


PorrER's TOOLS (10 GP) 

Ability: Intelligence Weight: 3 Ib. 

Utilize: Discern what a ceramic object held in the past 
24 hours (DC 15) 

Craft: Jug, Lamp 


SMITH’S TOOLS (20 GP) 

Ability: Strength Weight: 8 lb. 

Utilize: Pry open a door or container (DC 20) 

Craft: Any Melee weapon (except Club, Greatclub, 
Quarterstaff, and Whip), Medium armor (except 
Hide), Heavy armor, Ball Bearings, Bucket, Caltrops, 
Chain, Crowbar, Firearm Bullets, Grappling Hook, 
Iron Pot, Iron Spikes, Sling Bullets 


TiNKEn's TOOLs (50 GP) 

Ability: Dexterity Weight: 10 Ib. 

Utilize: Assemble a Tiny item composed of scrap, 
which falls apart in 1 minute (DC 20) 

Craft: Musket, Pistol, Bell, Bullseye Lantern, Flask, 
Hooded Lantern, Hunting Trap, Lock, Manacles, 
Mirror, Shovel, Signal Whistle, Tinderbox 


WEAVER’S TOOLS (1 GP) 

Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 Ib. 

Utilize: Mend a tear in clothing (DC 10), or sew a Tiny 
design (DC 10) 

Craft: Padded Armor, Basket, Bedroll, Blanket, Fine 
Clothes, Net, Robe, Rope, Sack, String, Tent, Travel- 
er's Clothes 


WooDCARVERr’s TOOLs (1 GP) 

Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 Ib. 

Utilize: Carve a pattern in wood (DC 10) 

Craft: Club, Greatclub, Quarterstaff, Ranged weapons 
(except Pistol, Musket, and Sling), Arcane Focus, Ar- 
rows, Bolts, Druidic Focus, Ink Pen, Needles 


tees 


OTHER TOOLS 


27777 ee 
These tools support adventure and other pursuits. 


DiscuisE Kir (25 GP) 

Ability: Charisma Weight: 3 Ib. 
Utilize: Apply makeup (DC 10) 

Craft: Costume 


FORGERY Kır (15 GP) 

Ability: Dexterity Weight: 5 Ib. 

Utilize: Mimic 10 or fewer words of someone else's 
handwriting (DC 15), or duplicate a wax seal (DC 20) 


GAMING SET (VARIES) 

Ability: Wisdom Weight: — 

Utilize: Discern whether someone is cheating (DC 10), 
or win the game (DC 20) 

Variants: Dice (1 SP), dragonchess (1 GP), playing 
cards (5 SP), three-dragon ante (1 GP) 


HERBALISM Kır (5 GP) 


Ability: Intelligence Weight: 3 Ib. 
Utilize: Identify a plant (DC 10) 
Craft: Antitoxin, Candle, Healer's Kit, Potion of Healing 


MUSICAL INSTRUMENT (VARIES) 

Ability: Charisma Weight: Varies 

Utilize: Play a known tune (DC 10), or improvise a 
song (DC 15) 

Variants: Bagpipes (30 GP, 6 Ib.), drum (6 GP, 3 Ib.), 
dulcimer (25 GP, 10 Ib.), flute (2 GP, 1 Ib.), horn (3 
СР, 2 16.), lute (35 GP, 2 1Ь.), lyre (30 GP, 2 Ib.), pan 
flute (12 GP, 2 Ib.), shawm (2 GP, 1 Ib.), viol (30 GP, 
116.) 


NavicaTor’s TooLs (25 GP) 

Ability: Wisdom Weight: 2 lb. 

Utilize: Plot a course (DC 10), or determine position 
by stargazing (DC 15) 


PoIsONER’S Кіт (50 GP) 

Ability: Intelligence Weight: 2 Ib. 
Utilize: Detect a poisoned object (DC 10) 
Craft: Basic Poison 


THIEVES’ Toots (25 GP) 
Ability: Dexterity Weight: 1 Ib. 
Utilize: Pick a lock (DC 15), or disarm a trap (DC 15) 


CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 221 


ADVENTURING GEAR 
The Adventuring Gear table in this section includes 
gear that adventurers often find useful. These items 
are described here in alphabetical order, with an 
item's price appearing after its name. 


Acip (25 GP) 

When you take the Attack action, you can replace 
one of your attacks with throwing a vial of Acid. 
Target one creature or object you can see within 
20 feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a 
Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity 
modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take 2d6 Acid 
damage. 


ALCHEMIST'S FIRE (50 GP) 

When you take the Attack action, you can replace 
one of your attacks with throwing a flask of Alche- 
mist’s Fire. Target one creature or object you can 
see within 20 feet of yourself. The target must suc- 
ceed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your 
Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take 
1d4 Fire damage and start burning (see the rules 
glossary). 


CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


Imre Lo ara 


A WARLOCK CHANNELS MAGIC 
THROUGH AN ARCANE Focus. 


AMMUNITION (VARIES) 

Ammunition is required by a weapon that has the 
Ammunition property. A weapon's description spec- 
ifies the type of ammunition used by the weapon. 
The Ammunition table lists the different types and 
the amount you get when you buy them. The table 
also lists the item that is typically used to store each 
type; storage must be bought separately. 


AMMUNITION 


Type Amount Storage Weight Cost 
Arrows 20 Quiver llb. 1GP 
Bolts 20 Case 12 |b. ТСР 
Bullets, Firearm 10 Pouch 2lb. 3GP 
Bullets, Sling 20 Pouch 1⁄2 Ib. 4CP 
Needles 50 Pouch llb. 1GP 


ANTITOXIN (50 GP) 

As a Bonus Action, you can drink a vial of Antitoxin 
to gain Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end 
the Poisoned condition for 1 hour. 


ADVENTURING GEAR 
Item 

Acid 

Alchemist’s Fire 
Ammunition 
Antitoxin 

Arcane Focus 
Backpack 

Ball Bearings 
Barrel 

Basket 

Bedroll 

Bell 

Blanket 

Block and Tackle 
Book 

Bottle, Glass 
Bucket 

Burglar's Pack 
Caltrops 

Candle 

Case, Crossbow Bolt 


Case, Map or Scroll 
Chain 
Chest 
Climber's Kit 
Clothes, Fine 
Clothes, Traveler's 
Component Pouch 
Costume 
Crowbar 
Diplomat's Pack 
Druidic Focus 
Dungeoneer's Pack 
Entertainer's Pack 
Explorer's Pack 
Flask 
Grappling Hook 
2 Healer's Kit 
Holy Symbol 
= Holy Water 
= Hunting Trap 


Weight 
1 Ib. 

1 Ib. 
Varies 


Varies 
5 Ib. 

2 Ib. 
70 Ib. 
2 Ib. 

7 lb. 


3 Ib. 

5 lb. 

5 Ib. 
2 Ib. 
2 lb. 
42 lb. 
2 lb. 

1 Ib. 

1 Ib. 
10 Ib. 
25 |b. 
12 Ib. 
6 Ib. 

4 |b. 

2 lb. 

4 Ib. 

5 |b. 
39 Ib. 
Varies 
55 Ib. 
58V Ib. 
55 |b. 
1 lb. 

4 lb. 

3 lb. 
Varies 
11b. 
25 lb. 


o — 


с 
" 


to $5 


Cost 
25.67 
50 GP 
Varies" 
50 GP 
Varies 

2 GP 

1 GP 

2GP 

4 SP 

ТСР 

1GP 

5 SP 

1 GP 
25 GP 

2 GP 

5 CP 
16 GP 

1GP 

1CP 
1GP 
1GP 

5 GP 

5 GP 
25 GP 

15 GP 

2 GP 
25 GP 

5 GP 

2 GP 
39 GP 
Varies 

12 GP 
40 GP 

10 GP 

2CP 

2 GP 

5 GP 

Varies 

25 GP 
5 GP 


CN 


zi 


~ 


Dod 0G PO 


String AT 
Tent 206. GP. 
.. Tinderbox SSPE 
E A ea 
Vial oe 


Item Weight Cost | 
Ink Pen - = 2CP \ 
Jug 4 lb. 2CP d 
Ladder _ 25 Ib. 15Р Я 
Lamp 1 lb. 5 SP | 
Lantern, Bullseye 2 Ib. 10 GP 

Lantern, Hooded 2 lb. 5 GP 
Lock 1 Ib. 10 GP 

Magnifying Glass — 100GP | 
Manacles 6 Ib. 2GP |: 
Map X Ур | 
Мїггог 1/2 Ib. 5 GP | 
Net 3l. — 1GP | 
Ой 1 lb. 15Р 

Рарег — 25Р 

Parchment — 1SP H 
Perfume — sep 1 
Poison, Basic — | 100GP | 
Pole 7 lb. 5 СР 

Pot, Iron 10 Ib. 2GP 

Potion of Healing 1/2 lb. 50 GP 

Pouch 1 lb. 5 SP 

Priest's Pack 29 Ib. 33 GP f 

Quiver 1 lb. 1GP — 

Ram, Portable 35 lb. 4GP A oe 

Rations 2 lb. 5SP 2 Е 

Вође 4 Ib. f 

Rope 5 lb. ТОР aa 

Sack 1/2 lb. 1CP ZEN 

Scholar's Pack 221.  40GP -. 

Shovel 5 |b. 2GP — 

Signal Whistle — CRS 

Spell Scroll (Cantrip) = 

Spell Scroll (Level 1) — ) GP 

Spikes, Iron 5 lb. 1GP 

Spyglass llb. 1,000 GP У 


Wace 


ARCANE FOCUS (VARIES) 

An Arcane Focus takes one of the forms in the 
Arcane Focuses table and is bejeweled or carved to 
channel arcane magic. A Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wiz- 
ard can use such an item as a Spellcasting Focus. 


ARCANE FOCUSES 


Focus Weight Cost 
Crystal 1 Ib. 10 GP 
Orb 3 Ib. 20 GP 
Rod 2 lb. 10 GP 
Staff (also a Quarterstaff) 4 Ib. 5 GP 
Wand 1 Ib. 10 GP 


BACKPACK (2 GP) 
A Backpack holds up to 30 pounds within 1 cubic 
foot. It can also serve as a saddlebag. 


BALL BEARINGS (1 GP) 

As a Utilize action, you can spill Ball Bearings from 
their pouch. They spread to cover a level, 10-foot- 
square area within 10 feet of yourself. A creature 
that enters this area for the first time on a turn 
must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw 
or have the Prone condition. It takes 10 minutes to 
recover the Ball Bearings. 


BARREL (2 GP) 
A Barrel holds up to 40 gallons of liquid or up to 4 
cubic feet of dry goods. 


BASKET (4 SP) 
A Basket holds up to 40 pounds within 2 cubic feet. 


BEDROLL (1 GP) 

A Bedroll sleeps one Small or Medium creature. 
While in a Bedroll, you automatically succeed on 
saving throws against extreme cold (see the Dun- 
geon Master's Guide). 


BELL (1 GP) 
When rung as a Utilize action, a Bell produces a 
sound that can be heard up to 60 feet away. 


BLANKET (5 SP) 

While wrapped in a blanket, you have Advantage 
on saving throws against extreme cold (see the Dun- 
geon Master's Guide). 


CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


oum Imam m 


BLOCK AND TACKLE (1 GP) 
A Block and Tackle allows you to hoist up to four 
times the weight you can normally lift. 


Book (25 GP) 

A Book contains fiction or nonfiction. If you consult 
an accurate nonfiction Book about its topic, you 
gain a +5 bonus to Intelligence (Arcana, History, Na- 
ture, or Religion) checks you make about that topic. 


BOTTLE, GLass (2 GP) 
A Glass Bottle holds up to 1% pints. 


Воскет (5 CP) 
A Bucket holds up to half a cubic foot of contents. 


BURGLAR's РАСК (16 GP) 

A Burglar's Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Ball Bearings, Bell, 10 Candles, Crowbar, 
Hooded Lantern, 7 flasks of Oil, 5 days of Rations, 
Rope, Tinderbox, and Waterskin. 


CALTROPS (1 GP) 

As a Utilize action, you can spread Caltrops from 
their bag to cover a 5-foot-square area within 5 
feet of yourself. A creature that enters this area for 
the first time on a turn must succeed on a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw or take 1 Piercing damage 
and have its Speed reduced to O until the start of 
its next turn. It takes 10 minutes to recover the 
Caltrops. 


CANDLE (1 CP) 
For 1 hour, a lit Candle sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 5 feet. 


CASE, CnossBow Вот (1 GP) 
A Crossbow Bolt Case holds up to 20 Bolts. 


CASE, MAP OR SCROLL (1 GP) 
A Map or Scroll Case holds up to 10 sheets of paper 
or 5 sheets of parchment. 


CHAIN (5 GP) 

As a Utilize action, you can wrap a Chain around an 
unwilling creature within 5 feet of yourself that has 
the Grappled, Incapacitated, or Restrained condi- 
tion if you succeed on a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) 


— ~~ 


check. If the creature's legs are bound, the creature 
has the Restrained condition until it escapes. Es- 
caping the Chain requires the creature to make a 
successful DC 18 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check as an 
action. Bursting the Chain requires a successful DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action. 


Cuest (5 GP) 
A Chest holds up to 12 cubic feet of contents. 


CLIMBER's Kir (25 GP) 

A Climber's Kit includes boot tips, gloves, pitons, 
and a harness. As a Utilize action, you can use the 
Climber's Kit to anchor yourself; when you do, you 
can't fall more than 25 feet from the anchor point, 
and you can't move more than 25 feet from there 
without undoing the anchor as a Bonus Action. 


CLOTHES, FINE (15 GP) 

Fine Clothes are made of expensive fabrics and 
adorned with expertly crafted details. Some events 
and locations admit only people wearing these 
clothes. 


CLOTHES, TRAVELER'S (2 GP) 
Traveler's Clothes are resilient garments designed 
for travel in various environments. 


CoMPONENT Роосн (25 GP) 

A Component Pouch is watertight and filled with 
compartments that hold all the free Material com- 
ponents of your spells. 


CosTUME (5 GP) 

While wearing a Costume, you have Advantage on 
any ability check you make to impersonate the per- 
son or type of person it represents. 


CROWBAR (2 GP) 
Using a Crowbar gives you Advantage on Strength 


checks where the Crowbar's leverage can be applied. 


DiPLOMAT's Pack (39 GP) 

A Diplomat's Pack contains the following items: 
Chest, Fine Clothes, Ink, 5 Ink Pens, Lamp, 2 Map 
or Scroll Cases, 4 flasks of Oil, 5 sheets of Paper, 5 
sheets of Parchment, Perfume, and Tinderbox. 


D—M—M——-—— - 


Druipic Focus (VARIES) 

A Druidic Focus takes one of the forms in the Dru- 
idic Focuses table and is carved, tied with ribbon, or 
painted to channel primal magic. A Druid or Ranger 
can use such an object as a Spellcasting Focus. 


Druipic Focuses 


Focus Weight Cost 
Sprig of mistletoe — 1GP 
Wooden staff (also a Quarterstaff) 4lb. 5GP 
Yew wand llb. 10 GP 


DUNGEONEER’s РАСК (12 GP) 
A Dungeoneer's Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Caltrops, Crowbar, 2 flasks of Oil, 10 


days of Rations, Rope, Tinderbox, 10 Torches, and 
Waterskin. 


ENTERTAINER's РАСК (40 GP) 

An Entertainer's Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Bedroll, Bell, Bullseye Lantern, 3 Cos- 
tumes, Mirror, 8 flasks of Oil, 9 days of Rations, 
Tinderbox, and Waterskin. 


EXPLORER’S Pack (10 GP) 

An Explorer's Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Bedroll, 2 flasks of Oil, 10 days of Ra- 
tions, Rope, Tinderbox, 10 Torches, and Waterskin. 


FLAsK (2 CP) 
A Flask holds up to 1 pint. 


GRAPPLING Hook (2 GP) 

As a Utilize action, you can throw the Grappling 
Hook at a railing, a ledge, or another catch within 
50 feet of yourself, and the hook catches on if you 
succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. If 
you tied a Rope to the hook, you can then climb it. 


HEALER’ Кт (5 GP) 

A Healer’s Kit has ten uses. As a Utilize action, you 
can expend one of its uses to stabilize an Uncon- 
scious creature that has О Hit Points without need- 
ing to make a Wisdom (Medicine) check. 


CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


— тили 


—Ó————— aL 


Ногу SYMBOL (VARIES) 
A Holy Symbol takes one of the forms in the Holy 
Symbol table and is bejeweled or painted to channel 
divine magic. A Cleric or Paladin can use a Holy 
Symbol as a Spellcasting Focus. 

The table indicates whether a Holy Symbol needs 
to be held, worn, or borne on fabric (such as a tab- 
ard or banner) or a Shield. 


Hoty SYMBOLS 


Symbol Weight Cost 
Amulet (worn or held) llb. 5GP 
Emblem (borne on fabric or a Shield) — 5GP 

21Ь. 5GP 


| i i Reliquary (held) 


HoLv WATER (25 GP) 

When you take the Attack action, you can replace 
one of your attacks with throwing a flask of Holy 

| Water. Target one creature you can see within 20 

| feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a Dex- 
ү terity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity mod- 
ifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take 2d8 Radiant 

| damage if it is a Fiend or an Undead. 


0118 
^ ~~ 
| 


HuNTING Trap (5 GP) 

As a Utilize action, you can set a Hunting Trap, 
! which is а sawtooth steel ring that snaps shut when 
a a creature steps on a pressure plate in the center. 
4 
j 


The trap is affixed by a heavy chain to an immo- 
bile object, such as a tree or a spike driven into the 
ground. A creature that steps on the plate must 
succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take 
1d4 Piercing damage and have its Speed reduced to 
E- O until the start of its next turn. Thereafter, until 
" the creature breaks free of the trap, its movement 
РЭ is limited by the length of the chain (typically 3 
feet). A creature can use its action to make a DC 
: 13 Strength (Athletics) check, freeing itself or an- 
К other creature within its reach on а success. Each 
failed check deals 1 Piercing damage to the trapped 
creature. 


=) 
T ы 


er 


Ink (10 GP) 


'  Inkcomes in a 1-ounce bottle, which provides 


m DE to write about 500 pages. 


Д 


J Inl 


re 


Jue (2 СР) 
A Jug holds up to 1 gallon. 


LADDER (1 SP) 
A Ladder is 10 feet tall. You must climb to move up 


or down it. 


Lamp (5 SP) 
A Lamp burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright Light in a 
15-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 


feet. 


LANTERN, BULLSEYE (10 GP) 

A Bullseye Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright 
Light in a 60-foot Cone and Dim Light for an addi- 
tional 60 feet. 


LANTERN, Ноорер (5 GP) 

A Hooded Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright 
Light in a 30-foot radius and Dim Light for an ad- 
ditional 30 feet. As a Bonus Action, you can lower 
the hood, reducing the light to Dim Light in a 5-foot 
radius, or raise it again. 


Lock (10 GP) 

A Lock comes with a key. Without the key, a crea- 
ture can use Thieves' Tools to pick this Lock with a 
successful DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. 


MAGNIFYING Grass (100 GP) 

A Magnifying Glass grants Advantage on any abil- 
ity check made to appraise or inspect a highly de- 
tailed item. Lighting a fire with a Magnifying Glass 
requires light as bright as sunlight to focus, tinder 
to ignite, and about 5 minutes for the fire to ignite. 


j——O——€—5A—^—^—^^^^—^—^—5^—^—^—^—^— 


MANACLES (2 GP) 

As a Utilize action, you can use Manacles to bind an 
unwilling Small or Medium creature within 5 feet 
of yourself that has the Grappled, Incapacitated, 
or Restrained condition if you succeed on a DC 15 
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. While bound, a 
creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls, and the 
creature is Restrained if the Manacles are attached 
to a chain or hook that is fixed in place. Escaping 
the Manacles requires a successful DC 20 Dexterity 
(Sle 


Each set of Manacles comes with a key. Without 
the key, a creature can use Thieves' Tools to pick 
the Manacles' lock with a successful DC 15 Dexter- 
ity (Sleight of Hand) check. 


ооло 


МАР (1 СР) 

If you consult an accurate Map, you gain a *5 bonus 
to Wisdom (Survival) checks you make to find your 
way in the place represented on it. 


MIRROR (5 GP) 

A handheld steel Mirror is useful for personal cos- 
metics but also for peeking around corners and re- 
flecting light as a signal. 


Net (1 GP) 

When you take the Attack action, you can replace 
one of your attacks with throwing a Net. Target a 
creature you can see within 15 feet of yourself. The 
target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw 
(DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency 
Bonus) or have the Restrained condition until it 
escapes. The target succeeds automatically if it is 
Huge or larger. 

To escape, the target or a creature within 5 feet 
of it must take an action to make a DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check, freeing the Restrained creature 
on a success. Destroying the Net (AC 10; 5 HP; Im- 
munity to Bludgeoning, Poison, and Psychic dam- 
age) also frees the target, ending the effect. 


Ort (1 SP) 
You can douse a creature, object, or space with Oil 
or use it as fuel, as detailed below. 

Dousing a Creature or an Object. When you take 
the Attack action, you can replace one of your at- 
tacks with throwing an Oil flask. Target one crea- 
ture or object within 20 feet of yourself. The target 
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 
plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) 
or be covered in oil. If the target takes Fire damage 
before the oil dries (after 1 minute), the target takes 
an extra 5 Fire damage from burning oil. 

Dousing a Space. You can take the Utilize action to 
pour an Oil flask on level ground to cover a 5-foot- 
square area within 5 feet of yourself. If lit, the oil 
burns until the end of the turn 2 rounds from when 
the oil was lit (or 12 seconds) and deals 5 Fire dam- 
age to any creature that enters the area or ends its 
turn there. A creature can take this damage only - 
once per turn. е = os 

Fuel. Oil serves as fuel for L 
it, a as of Oil burns К 61 


ме 


or Lantern. That duration doesn't need to be con- 
secutive; you can extinguish the burning Oil (as 
a Utilize action) and rekindle it again until it has 
burned for a total of 6 hours. 


PAPER (2 SP) 


One sheet of Paper can hold about 250 handwritten 
words. 


PARCHMENT (1 SP) А t d | 
One sheet of Parchment can hold about 250 hand- EN | 
written words. T 
PERFUME (5 GP) | 
Perfume comes in a 4-ounce vial. For 1 hour after 


applying Perfume to yourself, you have Advantage 
on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to influen 


petite puis RTT RES 0 4 
Porson, Basic (100 GP) ee 
As a Bonus Action, you can use a vial of Bas; 
son to coat one weapon or up to thre 
ition. A creature | at takes Piercing: 
гот the weapon or a 


4 
т 


ш 


Роге (5 CP) 

A Pole is 10 feet long. You can use it to touch 
something up to 1O feet away. If you must make a 
Strength (Athletics) check as part of a High or Long 
Jump, you can use the Pole to vault, giving yourself 


Advantage on the check. 


Por, Івом (2 GP) 
An Iron Pot holds up to 1 gallon. 


POTION OF HEALING (50 GP) 

This potion is a magic item. As a Bonus Action, you 
can drink it or administer it to another creature 
within 5 feet of yourself. The creature that drinks 
the magical red fluid in this vial regains 2d4 + 2 Hit 
Points. 


Poucu (5 SP) 
A Pouch holds up to 6 pounds within one-fifth of a 


cubic foot. 


Priest’s Pack (33 GP) 

A Priest’s Pack contains the following items: Back- 
pack, Blanket, Holy Water, Lamp, 7 days of Rations, 
Robe, and Tinderbox. 


Quiver (1 GP) 
A Quiver holds up to 20 Arrows. 


RAM, PorTABLE (4 GP) 

You can use a Portable Ram to break down doors. 
When doing so, you gain a +4 bonus to the Strength 
check. One other character can help you use the 
ram, giving you Advantage on this check. 


RATIONS (5 SP) 

Rations consist of travel-ready food, including jerky, 
dried fruit, hardtack, and nuts. See "Malnutrition" 
in the rules glossary for the risks of not eating. 


Rose (1 GP) 

A Robe has vocational or ceremonial significance. 
Some events and locations admit only people wear- 
ing a Robe bearing certain colors or symbols. 


\ 


28 CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


(ойрат ч. еф BT o 


e meen 


Rope (I GP) 


As a Utilize action, you can tie a knot with Rope if 
you succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) 
check. The Rope can be burst with a successful DC 


20 Strength (Athletics) check. 

You can bind an unwilling creature with the Rope 
only if the creature has the Grappled, Incapacitated, 
or Restrained condition. If the creature's legs are 
bound, the creature has the Restrained condition 


until it escapes. Escaping the Rope requires the 
creature to make a successful DC 15 Dexterity (Ac- 


robatics) check as an action. 


Sack (1 CP) 
A Sack holds up to 30 pounds within 1 cubic foot. 


ScHOLAR’S Pack (40 GP) 

A Scholar's Pack contains the following items: Back- 
pack, Book, Ink, Ink Pen, Lamp, 10 flasks of Oil, 10 
sheets of Parchment, and Tinderbox. 


SHOVEL (2 GP) 
Working for 1 hour, you can use a Shovel to dig 
a hole that is 5 feet on each side in soil or similar 


material. 


SIGNAL WHISTLE (5 CP) 

When blown as a Utilize action, a Signal Whistle 
produces a sound that can be heard up to 600 feet 
away. 


SPELL SCROLL (CANTRIP, 30 GP; 

LEVEL 1, 50 GP) 

A Spell Scroll (Cantrip) or Spell Scroll (Level 1) is a 
magic item that bears the words of a cantrip or level 
1 spell, respectively, determined by the scroll's cre- 
ator. If the spell is on your class's spell list, you can 
read the scroll and cast the spell using its normal 
casting time and without providing any Material 
components. 

If the spell requires a saving throw or an attack 
roll, the spell save DC is 13, and the attack bonus 
is +5. The scroll disintegrates when the casting is 
completed. 


SPIKES, [RON (1 GP) 

Iron Spikes come in bundles of ten. As a Utilize 
action, you can use a blunt object, such as a Light 
Hammer, to hammer a spike into wood, earth, or a 
similar material. You can do so to ja: а door shut or 
to then tie a Rope or Chain to the Spike. 


— E 


NLIS e А РИИ ЕКИ А 


E 
spyGLass (1,000 GP) 

Objects viewed through a Spyglass are magnified to 
twice their size. 


STRING (1 SP) 
String is 10 feet long. You can tie a knot in itas a 
Utilize action. 


TENT (2 GP) 


A Tent sleeps up to two Small or Medium creatures. 


TINDERBOX (5 SP) 

A Tinderbox is a small container holding flint, fire 
steel, and tinder (usually dry cloth soaked in light 
oil) used to kindle a fire. Using it to light a Candle, 
Lamp, Lantern, or Torch—or anything else with 
exposed fuel—takes a Bonus Action. Lighting any 
other fire takes 1 minute. 


Товсн (1 CP) 

A Torch burns for 1 hour, casting Bright Light in 

a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 
20 feet. When you take the Attack action, you can 
attack with the Torch, using it as a Simple Melee 
weapon. On a hit, the target takes 1 Fire damage. 


Viar (1 GP) Bagni _ “A ; 
A Vial holds up to 4 ounces. Barding is armor designed for a mount. Any type 


of armor on the Armor table in this chapter can be 
purchased as barding. The cost is four times the 
WATERSKIN (2 SP) normal cost, and it weighs twice as much. 
A Waterskin holds up to 4 pints. If you don't drink 


sufficient water, you risk dehydration (see the rules SADDLES 

glossary). A saddle comes with a bit, a bridle, reins, and any f 
other equipment needed to use the saddle. A Mili- 

MOUNTS AND VEHICLES tary Saddle gives Advantage on any ability check 

A mount can help you move more quickly through you make to remain mounted. An Exotic Saddle is 

the wilderness, but its primary purpose is to carry required for riding an aquatic or a flying mount. 


gear that would otherwise slow you down. The 


: MOUNTS AND OTHER ANIM 
Mounts and Other Animals table shows each ani- 5 OTHE ACS | 


mal's carrying capacity. See appendix B for the ani- Item Carrying Capacity Cost 
mals' stat blocks. Camel 450 Ib. 50 GP 
MOUNTS AND CARGO Elephant 1,320 Ib. 200 GP 
PE T CUR ae ae Horse, Draft 540 Ib. 50 GP. 
An animal pulling a carriage, cart, chariot, sled, or - lb 
wagon can move weight up to five times its base Horse, Riding 480 Ib. 75 GP 
carrying capacity, including the weight of the ve- Mastiff 195 Ib. 25 GP 
hicle. If multiple animals pull the same vehicle, add Mule 420 |b. 8 GP i 
their carrying capacities together. any 225 lb. 30 GP. 
Warhorse 540 Ib. 400 GP 


| CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


Tack, HARNESS, AND DRAWN VEHICLES 


Item Weight Cost 
Carriage 600 Ib. 100 GP 
Cart 200 Ib. 15 GP 
Chariot 100 Ib. 250 GP 
Feed per day 10 Ib. 5CP 
Saddle 

Exotic 40 Ib. 60 GP 

Military 30 Ib. 20 GP 

Riding 25 Ib. 10 GP 
Sled 300 Ib. 20 GP 
Stabling per day = 5SP 
Wagon 400 Ib. 35 GP 


LARGE VEHICLES 


The Airborne and Waterborne Vehicles table pro- 
vides statistics for various types of large vehicles. 
The following notes apply. 


SPEED 

A ship sailing against a strong wind moves at half 
speed. In a dead calm (no wind), waterborne ships 
can't move under sail and must be rowed. Keelboats 
and Rowboats are used on lakes and rivers. If going 
downstream, add the speed of the current (typically 
3 miles per hour) to the speed of the vehicle. These 
vehicles can't be rowed against any significant cur- 
rent, but they can be pulled upstream by draft ani- 
mals on the shores. A Rowboat can be carried and 
weighs 100 pounds. 


CREW 

A ship larger than a Keelboat or Rowboat needs 

a crew of skilled hirelings (see "Services" later in 
this chapter) to function. The minimum number of 
skilled hirelings needed to crew a ship depends on 
the type of ship, as shown in the table. 


AIRBORNE AND WATERBORNE VEHICLES 


PASSENGERS 
The table lists the number of Small and Medium 


passengers the ship can accommodate using ham- 
mocks. À ship outfitted with private accommoda- 
tions can carry one-fifth as many passengers. A 
passenger usually pays 5 SP per day for a hammock, 
but prices can vary from ship to ship. A small pri- 
vate cabin usually costs 2 GP per day. 


DAMAGE THRESHOLD 
If a vehicle has a damage threshold (see the rules 
glossary), it's noted in the table. 


SHIP REPAIR 

Repairs to a damaged ship can be made while the 
vessel is berthed. Repairing 1 Hit Point of damage 
requires 1 day and costs 20 GP for materials and la- 
bor. If the repairs are made in a location where sup- 
plies and skilled labor are abundant, such as a city 
shipyard, the repair time and cost are halved. 


SERVICES 


This section outlines services and other expenses 
that adventurers might spend money on. 


LIFESTYLE EXPENSES 


Lifestyle expenses summarize the cost of living in a 
fantasy world. They cover lodging, food, equipment 
maintenance, and other necessities. 

At the start of each week or month (DM’s choice), 
choose a lifestyle below—Wretched, Squalid, Poor, 
Modest, Comfortable, Wealthy, or Aristocratic—and 
pay the price to sustain that lifestyle. 

Lifestyles have no inherent consequences, but the 
DM might take them into account when determin- 
ing risks or how others perceive your character. 


WRETCHED (FREE) 

You survive via chance and charity. You're often 
exposed to natural dangers as a result of sleeping 
outside. 


Ship Speed Crew Passengers Cargo (Tons) АС HP Damage Threshold Cost 
Airship 8mph 10 20 1 13 300 — 40,000 GP 
Galley 4mph 80 — 150 15 500 20 30,000 GP 
Keelboat 1 mph 1 6 1/2 15 100 10 3,000 СР 
Longship 3mph 40 150 10 15 300 15 10,000 GP 
Rowboat 1⁄2 mph ] 3 — 11 50 -- 50 GP 
Sailing Ship 2трһ 20 20 100 15 300 15 10,000 GP 
Warship 2V)mph 60 60 200 15 500 20 25,000 GP 


A WIZARD ANO HER FAMILIAR SPEND 
AN AFTERNOON SHOPPING. 


SQUALID (1 SP PER Day) Foon, DRINK, AND LODGING а i} 

You spend the bare minimum for your necessities. Item Cost Item Cost 3. 

You might be exposed to unhealthy conditions and Ale (mug) ACP Meal 

opportunistic criminals. А | 
Bread (loaf) 2 CP Squalid 1 CP 1 

Poor (2 SP рев DAY) Cheese (wedge) ^ 1SP Poor 2 CP 

You spend frugally for your necessities. Inn Stay per Day Modest Т 

Mopzsr (1 СР PER Day) Squalid 7 CP Comfortable 2 SP 

You support yourself at an average level. Poor 1 SP Wealthy 3 SP | 

COMFORTABLE (2 GP PER Day) Modest 55р Aristocratic 6 SP | 

You spend modestly for your necessities and enjoy а Comfortable 8SP Wine (bottle) $ 

few luxuries. Wealthy 2GP Соттоп 2 SP | 

WEALTHY (4 GP PER Day) Aristocratic 4GP Fine 10 GP i 

You're accustomed to the finer things in life and Е 

might have servants. TRAVEL 

ARISTOCRATIC (10 GP PER Day) Drivers or crew hired to conduct passengers to : 


their destinations charge the rates on the Travel ta- 


You pay for the best and might have a staff that sup- ble, plasan шок Ашна еке 


ports your lifestyle. Others notice your wealth and 
might encourage you to share it, either legally or 


i TRAVEL 
otherwise. ; 
Service Cost 

Foop, D ZIN K, AND LODGING  — Coach ride between towns 3 CP per mile 
; The Food, Drink, and Lodging table gives prices for Coach ride within a city 1 CP per mile 
; eua a nde lodang iui a Road or gate toll 1CP 
2 odging and rżsals are included in your lifestyle's MEE З 
+ expenses. Ship's passage 1 SP per mile 


ge ao. : : CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 
Se í RRA ON : Qoo oops crm aste de ADR tr i TR URNA 


HIRELINGS 
Skilled hirelings include anyone hired to perform 
a service that involves a proficiency (including 
weapon, tool, or skill): a mercenary, an artisan, a 
scribe, or the like. The pay shown on the Hirelings 
table is a minimum; some expert hirelings require 
more pay. Untrained hirelings are hired for work 
that requires no particular proficiencies; they in- 
clude laborers and porters. 


HIRELINGS 
Service Cost 
Skilled hireling 2 GP per day 
Untrained hireling 2 SP per day 
Messenger 2 CP per mile 
SPELLCASTING 


Most settlements contain individuals who are will- 
ing to cast spells in exchange for payment. If a spell 
has expensive components, add the cost of those 
components to the cost listed in the Spellcasting 
Services table. The higher the level of a desired 
spell, the harder it is to find someone to cast it. 


SPELLCASTING SERVICES 


Spell Level ^ Availability Cost 
Cantrip Village, town, or city 30 GP 

1 Village, town, or city 50 GP 

2 Village, town, or city 200 GP 

3 Town or city only 300 GP 

4-5 Town or city only 2,000 GP 
6-8 City only 20,000 GP 

9 City only 100,000 GP 


MAGIC ITEMS 


Adventures hold the promise—but not a guarantee— 
of finding magic items. Hundreds of magic items are 
detailed in the Dungeon Master's Guide, since the DM 
decides when you find such an item. Here's what 
you need to know about using magic items. 


IDENTIFYING A Macic ITEM > 


Some magic items are indistinguishable from their 
nonmagical counterparts, while others are conspic- 
uously magical. Handling a magic item is enough to 
give you a sense that it is extraordinary, but learn- 
ing a magic item's properties isn't automatic. 

The Identify spell is the fastest way to reveal an 
item's properties. Alternatively, you can focus on 
one magic item during a Short Rest while being in 


222 CHAPTER 6 | EQUIPMENT 


ET MU TG ne a 


physical contact with the item. At the end of the 
rest, you learn its properties and how to use them 
(but not any curse the item might bear). 

Sometimes a magic item carries a clue to its prop- 
erties. The command word to activate a ring might 
be etched inside the band, or a feathered design 
might hint that it's a Ring of Feather Falling. 

Wearing or experimenting with an item can also 
offer hints about its properties. In the specific case 
of Potions, a little taste is enough to tell the taster 
what a potion does. Other items might require 
more experimentation. For example, if your char- 
acter puts on a Ring of Swimming, the DM might say, 
"Your movement feels strangely fluid." Perhaps you 
then dive into a river to see what happens. The DM 
would then say you swim unexpectedly well. 


ATTUNEMENT 

Some magic items require a creature to form a 
bond—called Attunement—with them before the 
creature can use an item's magical properties. 
Without becoming attuned to an item that requires 
Attunement, you gain only its nonmagical benefits 
unless its description states otherwise. For example, 
a magic Shield that requires Attunement provides 
the benefits of a normal Shield if you aren't attuned 
to it, but none of its magical properties. 


ATTUNE DURING A SHORT REST 

Attuning to an item requires you to spend a Short 
Rest focused on only that item while being in physi- 
cal contact with it (this can't be the same Short Rest 
used to learn the item's properties). This focus can 
take the form of weapon practice (for a Weapon), 
meditation (for a Wand), or some other appropri- 
ate activity. If the Short Rest is interrupted, the 
Attunement attempt fails. Otherwise, at the end of 
the Short Rest, you're attuned to the magic item and 
can access its full magical capabilities. 


No More THAN THREE ITEMS 

You can be attuned to no more than three magic 
items at a time. Any attempt to attune to a fourth 
item fails; you must end your Attunement to an item 
first. Additionally, you can't attune to more than 
one copy of an item. For example, you can't attune 
to more than one Ring of Protection at a time. 


ENDING ATTUNEMENT 

Your Attunement to an item ends if you no longer 
satisfy the prerequisites for Attunement, if the item 
has been more than 100 feet away for at least 24 
hours, if you die, or if another creature attunes to 
the item. You can also voluntarily end Attunement 
by spending another Short Rest focused on the item 
unless the item is cursed. 


WEARING AND WIELDING ITEMS 
WEARI ———M———— 
Using a magic item's properties might mean wearing 
or wielding it. A magic item meant to be worn must 
be donned in the intended fashion: boots go on feet, 
gloves on hands, hats and helmets on a head, and 
rings on a finger. Magic armor must be donned, a 
Shield strapped to the arm, a cloak fastened about 
the shoulders. A weapon must be held. 

In most cases, a magic item that's meant to be 
worn can fit a creature regardless of size or build. 
Magic garments are made to be easily adjustable, or 
they magically adjust themselves to the wearer. 


MULTIPLE ITEMS OF THE SAME KIND 

You can't wear more than one of certain magic 
items. You can't normally wear more than one pair 
of footwear, one pair of gloves or gauntlets, one pair 
of bracers, one suit of armor, one item of headwear, 
or one cloak. The DM might make exceptions. 


PAIRED ITEMS 

Items that come in pairs—such as boots, bracers, 
gauntlets, and gloves—impart their benefits only 

if both items of the pair are worn. For example, a 
character wearing a Boot of Striding and Springing 
on one foot and a Boot of Elvenkind on the other foot 
gains no benefit from either. 


CRAFTING EQUIPMENT 


Using the rules below, characters can make non- 
magical items, Potions of Healing, and Spell Scrolls. 


CRAFTING NONMAGICAL ITEMS 


кокс дайа S ыы сар ә Ды: DN ER 
To craft a nonmagical item, you need tools, raw ma- 


terials, and time, each of which is detailed below. If 
you meet the requirements, you make the item, and 
you can use it or sell it at its normal price. 


TOOLS 
This chapter’s “Tools” section lists which tools are 
required to make certain items. The DM assigns re- 
quired tools for items not listed there. 

You must use the required tool to make an item 
and have proficiency with that tool. Anyone who 
helps you must also have proficiency with it. 


Raw MATERIALS 

To make an item, you need raw materials worth 
half its purchase cost (round down). For example, 
you need 750 GP of raw materials to make Plate Ar- 
mor, which sells for 1,500 GP. The DM determines 
whether appropriate raw materials are available. 


TIME 
To determine how many days (working 8 hours a 
day) it takes to make an item, divide its purchase 


= neus ir oro un 


por ae 


a Ч 


cost in GP by 10 (round a fraction up to a day). For 
example, you need 5 days to make a Heavy Cross- 
bow, which sells for 50 GP. 


If an item requires multiple days, the days needn't 
be consecutive. 


Characters can combine their efforts to shorten 
the crafting time. Divide the time needed to create 
an item by the number of characters working on it. 
Normally, only one other character can assist you, 
but the DM might allow more assistants. 


BREWING POTIONS OF HEALING 


A character who has proficiency with the Herbalism 
Kit can create a Potion of Healing. Doing so requires 
using that kit and 25 GP of raw material over the 
course of 1 day (8 hours of work). 


SCRIBING SPELL SCROLLS 


A spellcaster can transfer a spell to a scroll and cre- 
ate a Spell Scroll, using the rules below. 


TIME AND COST 

Scribing a scroll takes an amount of time and 
money based on the level of the spell, as shown in 
the Spell Scroll Costs table. For each day of inscrip- 
tion, you must work for 8 hours. If a scroll requires 
multiple days, those days needn't be consecutive. 


PREREQUISITES FOR THE SCRIBE 

To scribe a scroll, you must have proficiency in the 
Arcana skill or with Calligrapher's Tools and have 
the spell prepared on each day of the inscription. 
You must also have at hand any Material compo- ' 
nents required by the spell; if the spell consumes 

its Material components, they are consumed only 

when you complete the scroll. The scroll’s spell uses 

your spell save DC and spell attack bonus. 


CANTRIPS 1 


If the scribed spell is a cantrip, the version on the 
scroll works as if the caster were your level. 


SPELL SCROLL Costs 


ee 


Spell Level Time Cost 

Cantrip 1 day 15 GP 
1 1 day 25 СР 
2 3 days 100 GP 
3 5 days 150 GP 
4 10 days 1,000 GP 
5 25 days 1,500 GP 
6 40 days 10,000 GP | 
7 50 days 12,500 GP | 
8 60 days 15,000 GP 
9 120 days 50,000 GP | 


CHAPTER 7 


SPELLS 


— 


\ LIF 


| spells. It also includes descriptions of com- 
JL mon spells in the worlds of DUNGEONS 
& DRAGONS. Those spells are used by many class 
features, magic items, and monsters. 


T HIS CHAPTER GIVES RULES FOR CASTING 


GAINING SPELLS 


Before you can cast a spell, you must have the spell 
prepared in your mind or have access to the spell 
from a magic item, such as a Spell Scroll. Your fea- 
tures specify which spells you have access to, if any; 
whether you always have certain spells prepared; 
and whether you can change the list of spells you 
have prepared. 


PREPARING SPELLS 


If you have a list of level 1+ spells you prepare, your 
spellcasting feature specifies when you can change 

the list and the number of spells you can change, as 
summarized in the Spell Preparation by Class table. 


SPELL PREPARATION BY CLASS 


Class Change When You ... Number of Spells 
Bard Gain a level One 
Cleric Finish a Long Rest Any 
Druid Finish a Long Rest Any 
Paladin Finish a Long Rest One 
Ranger Finish a Long Rest One 
Sorcerer Gain a level One 
Warlock ^ Gain а level One 
Wizard Finish a Long Rest Any 


Most spellcasting monsters don't change their lists 
of prepared spells, but the DM is free to alter them. 


Certain features might give you a spell that you 
always have prepared. If you also have a list of pre- 
pared spells that you can change, a spell that you 
always have prepared doesn't count against the 
number of spells on that list. 
P ——MM—————————— S 
CASTING iN ARMOR 
You must have training with any armor you 
are wearing to cast spells while wearing it. You 
are otherwise too hampered by the armor for 
spellcasting 


=O 5 


V -——— ae 


CASTING SPELLS 


Each spell description has a series of entries that 
provide the details needed to cast the spell. The fol- 


lowing sections explain each of those entries, which 
follow a spell's name. 


SPELL LEVEL 


Every spell has a level from O to 9, which is indi- 
cated in a spell’s description. A spell’s level is an 
indicator of how powerful it is. Cantrips—simple 
spells that can be cast almost by rote—are level O. 
The rules for each spellcasting class say when its 
members gain access to spells of certain levels. 


SPELL SLOTS 
Spellcasting is taxing, so a spellcaster can cast only 
a limited number of level 1+ spells before resting. 
Spell slots are the main way a spellcaster’s magical 
potential is represented. Each spellcasting class 
gives its members a limited number of spell slots of 
certain spell levels. For example, a level 3 Wizard 
has four level 1 spell slots and two level 2 slots. 
When you cast a spell, you expend a slot of that 
spell's level or higher, effectively "filling" a slot 
with the spell. Imagine a spell slot is a groove of a T 
certain size—small for a level 1 slot and larger for a 
higher-level spell. A level 1 spell fits into a slot of any 
size, but a level 2 spell fits only into a slot that's at 
least level 2. So when a level 3 Wizard casts Magic 
Missile, a level 1 spell, that Wizard spends one of 
four level 1 slots and has three remaining. | 
Finishing a Long Rest restores any expended spell 
slots. 


CASTING WITHOUT SLOTS 
There are several ways to cast a spell without 
expending a spell slot: 


Cantrips. A cantrip is cast without a spell slot. 

Rituals. Certain spells have the Ritual tag in the 
Casting Time entry. Such a spell can be cast fol- 
lowing the normal rules for spellcasting, or it can 
be cast as a Ritual. The Ritual version of a spell 
takes 10 minutes longer to cast than normal, but it 
doesn't expend a spell slot. To cast a spell as a Rit- 
ual, a spellcaster must have it prepared. 

Special Abilities. Some characters and monsters 
have special abilities that allow them to cast spe- 
cific spells without a spell slot. This casting is usu- 
ally limited in another way, such as being able to 
cast the spell a limited number of times per day. 


Magic Items. Spell Scrolls and some other magic 
items contain spells that can be cast without a 
spell slot. The description of such an item specifies 
how many times a spell can be cast from it. 


UsiNG A HIGHER-LEVEL SPELL SLOT 
When a spellcaster casts a spell using a slot that is 
of a higher level than the spell, the spell takes on 
the higher level for that casting. For instance, ifa 
Wizard casts Magic Missile using a level 2 slot, that 
Magic Missile is level 2. Effectively, the spell expands 
to fill the slot it is put into. 

Some spells, such as Magic Missile and Cure 
Wounds, have more powerful effects when cast at a 
higher level, as detailed in a spell's description. 


ScHOOL OF MAGIC 


Each spell belongs to a school of magic. The schools 
are listed in the Schools of Magic table. These cate- 
gories help describe spells but have no rules of their 
own, although some other rules refer to them. 


SCHOOLS or Macic 
School Typical Effects 
Abjuration Prevents or reverses harmful effects 


Conjuration Transports creatures or objects 


Divination Reveals information 

Enchantment Influences minds 

Evocation Channels energy to create effects 
that are often destructive 

Illusion Deceives the mind or senses 

Necromancy  Manipulates life and death 


Transmutation Transforms creatures or objects 


CLASS SPELL LISTS 


If a spell is on a class's spell list, the class's name 
appears in parentheses after the spell's school of 
magic. Some features add a spell to a character's 
spell list even if the character isn't a member of a 
class in the parentheses. 


CASTING TIME 


Most spells require the Magic action to cast, but 
some spells require a Bonus Action, a Reaction, or 1 
minute or more. A spell's Casting Time entry speci- 
fies which of those is required. 


ONE SPELL WITH A SPELL SLOT PER TURN 
On a turn, you can expend only one spell slot to cast 
a spell. This rule means you can't, for example, cast 
a spell with a spell slot using the Magic action and 
another one using a Bonus Action on the same turn. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


REACTION AND BONUS ACTION Tei; GERS 

A spell that has a casting time of a Reaction is cast 
in response to a trigger that is defined in the spell's 
Casting Time entry. Some spells that have a casting 
time of a Bonus Action are also cast in response to a 
trigger defined in the spell. 


LONGER CASTING TIMES 

Certain spells—including a spell cast as a Ritual— 
require more time to cast: minutes or even hours. 
While you cast a spell with a casting time of 1 
minute or more, you must take the Magic action 

on each of your turns, and you must maintain Con- 
centration (see the rules glossary) while you do so. 
If your Concentration is broken, the spell fails, but 
you don't expend a spell slot. To cast the spell again, 
you must start over. 


RANGE 

A spell’s range indicates how far from the spell- 
caster the spell's effect can originate, and the spell’s 
description specifies which part of the effect is lim- 


ited by the range. 
A range usually takes one of the following forms: 


Distance. The range is expressed in feet. 

Touch. The spell's effect originates on something 
the spellcaster must touch, as defined in the spell. 

Self. The spell is cast on the spellcaster or emanates 
from them, as specified in the spell. 


If a spell has movable effects, they aren't restricted 
by its range unless the spell's description says 
otherwise. 


COMPONENTS 


A spell's components are physical requirements the 
spellcaster must meet to cast the spell. Each spell's 
description indicates whether it requires Verbal 
(V), Somatic (S), or Material (M) components. If 
the spellcaster can't provide one or more of a spell's 
components, the spellcaster can't cast the spell. 


VERBAL (V) 

A Verbal component is the chanting of esoteric 
words that sound like nonsense to the uninitiated. 
The words must be uttered in a normal speaking 
voice. The words themselves aren't the source of the 
spell's power; rather, the particular combination of 
sounds, with specific pitch and resonance, sets the 
threads of magic in motion. Thus, a creature who is 
gagged or in an area of magical silence can't cast a 
spell with a Verbal component. 


Somatic (S) 

A Somatic component is a forceful gesticulation 
or an intricate set of gestures. A spellcaster must 
use at least one of their hands to perform these 
movements, 


AN AASIMAR WITARO USES A CRYSTAL 


MATERIAL COMPONENT TO FOCUS THE 
MAGIC OF CONE OF Coto 


MATERIAL (M) DURATION 
A Material component is a particular material 
used in a spell's casting, as specified in parentheses 
in the Components entry. These materials aren't 
consumed by the spell unless the spell's description 


A spell's duration is the length of time the spell per- 
sists after it is cast. A duration typically takes one of 
the following forms: \ 


states otherwise. The spellcaster must have a hand Concentration. A duration that requires Concen- | | 
free to access them, but it can be the same hand tration follows the Concentration rules (see the | 
used to perform Somatic components, if апу. rules glossary). 
If a spell doesn't consume its materials and doesn't Instantaneous. An instantaneous duration means 
specify a cost for them, a spellcaster can use a Com- the spell's magic appears only for a moment and 
ponent Pouch (see chapter 6) instead of providing then disappears. 
the materials specified in the spell, or the spellcaster Time Span. A duration that provides a time span 
can substitute a Spellcasting Focus if the caster specifies how long the spell lasts in rounds, min- 
has a feature that allows that substitution. To use utes, hours, or the like. For example, a Duration 
a Component Pouch, you must have a hand free to entry might say “1 minute,” meaning the spell ends 
reach into it, and to use a Spellcasting Focus, you after 1 minute has passed. While a time-span spell | 
must hold it unless its description says otherwise that you cast is ongoing, you can dismiss it (no ac- | 
(see chapter 6 for descriptions). tion required) if you don't have the Incapacitated j 
DOE E em 1002 condition. | 
CREATING VERBAL COMPONENTS НКЕ ОЧ i 
If you'd like to say a spell’s Verbal component, | 
you may make up the words. However you make The effects of a spell are detailed after its duration 
them, the goal is to create something that's easy entry. Those details present exactly what the spell 1 
to say and that doesn't mean anything in the real does, which ignores mundane physical laws; any i 
world. Consider this method: take the name of outcomes beyond those effects are under the DM's 
the spell, keep only one instance of each of its purview. Whatever the effects, they typically deal 
letters, and rearrange the remaining letters into with targets, saving throws, attack rolls, or all 
words. For example, remove the second | from three, each of which is detailed below. | 
Fireball and rearrange the remaining letters to TONGS 


create Ber Fila оге A typical spell requires the caster to pick one or 


more targets to be affected by the spell's magic. A 
spell's description says whether the spell targets 
creatures, objects, or something else. 


B om. 


А 


 CHAPTER7|SPELLS | 297 | 


EMANATION 
AND SPHERE 


Ж POINT OF ORIGIN 


A Clear Path to the Target. To target something 
with a spell, a caster must have a clear path to it, so 
it can't be behind Total Cover. 

Targeting Yourself. If a spell targets a creature 
of your choice, you can choose yourself unless the 
creature must be Hostile or specifically a creature 
other than you. 

Areas of Effect. Some spells, such as Thunderwave, 
cover an area called an area of effect, which is de- 
fined in the rules glossary. The area determines 
what the spell targets. The description of a spell 
specifies whether it has an area of effect, which is 
typically one of these shapes: Cone, Cube, Cylinder, 
Emanation, Line, or Sphere. 

Awareness of Being Targeted. Unless a spell has a 
perceptible effect, a creature doesn’t know it was 
targeted by the spell. An effect like lightning is ob- 
vious, but a more subtle effect, such as an attempt 
to read thoughts, goes unnoticed unless a spell’s 
description says otherwise. 

Invalid Targets. If you cast a spell on someone 
or something that can't be affected by it, nothing 
happens to that target, but if you used a spell slot to 
cast the spell, the slot is still expended. 

If the spell normally has no effect on a target that 
succeeds on a saving throw, the invalid target ap- 
pears to have succeeded on its saving throw, even 
though it didn't attempt one (giving no hint that the 
creature is an invalid target). Otherwise, you per- 
ceive that the spell did nothing to the target. 


SAVING THROWS 

Many spells specify that a target makes a saving 
throw to avoid some or all of a spell's effects. The 
spell specifies the ability that the target uses for 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


the save and what happens on a success or failure. 
Here's how to calculate the DC for your spells: 


Spell save DC = 8 + your spellcasting ability modifier 
* your Proficiency Bonus 


ATTACK ROLLS 

Some spells require the caster to make an attack roll 
to determine whether the spell hits a target. Here's 
how to calculate the attack modifier for your spells: 


Spell attack modifier — your spellcasting ability 
modifier + your Proficiency Bonus 


COMBINING SPELL EFFECTS 
The effects of different spells add together while 
their durations overlap. In contrast, the effects of 
the same spell cast multiple times don't combine. 
Instead, the most potent effect—such as the high- 
est bonus—from those castings applies while their 
durations overlap. The most recent effect applies if 
the castings are equally potent and their durations 
overlap. For example, if two Clerics cast Bless on the 
same target, that target gains the spell's benefit only 
once; the target doesn't receive two bonus dice. But 
if the durations of the spells overlap, the effect con- 
tinues until the duration of the second Bless ends. 
P —— M —————— HM —— line 
IDENTIFYING AN ONGOING SPELL 
You can try to identify a non-instantaneous spell 
by its observable effects if its duration is ongoing. 
To identify it, you must take the Study action and 
succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence 'Агсапа) check. 
i À——— SEE 


p 


SpELL DESCRIPTIONS 


The spells are presented in alphabetical order. 


ACID SPLASH 

Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: У, 5 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You create an acidic bubble at a point within range, 
where it explodes in a 5-foot-radius Sphere. Each 
creature in that Sphere must succeed on a Dexterity 
saving throw or take 1d6 Acid damage. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6 
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6). 


AID 

Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a strip of white cloth) 

Duration: 8 hours 


Choose up to three creatures within range. Each 
target's Hit Point maximum and current Hit Points 
increase by 5 for the duration. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Each target's Hit 
Points increase by 5 for each spell slot level above 2. 


ALARM 
Level 1 Abjuration (Ranger, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bell and silver wire) 
Duration: 8 hours 


You set an alarm against intrusion. Choose a door, 

a window, or an area within range that is no larger 
than a 20-foot Cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm 
alerts you whenever a creature touches or enters 
the warded area. When you cast the spell, you can 
designate creatures that won't set off the alarm. You 
also choose whether the alarm is audible or mental: 


Audible Alarm. The alarm produces the sound of 
a handbell for 10 seconds within 60 feet of the 
warded area. 

Mental Alarm. You are alerted by a mental ping 
if you are within 1 mile of the warded area. This 
ping awakens you if you're asleep. 


Oeo s EC ERR 


ALTER SELF 

Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You alter your physical form. Choose one of the 
following options. Its effects last for the duration, 
during which you can take a Magic action to replace 
the option you chose with a different one. 

Aquatic Adaptation. You sprout gills and grow 
webs between your fingers. You can breathe under- 
water and gain a Swim Speed equal to your Speed. 

Change Appearance. You alter your appearance. 
You decide what you look like, including your 
height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice, 
hair length, coloration, and other distinguishing 
characteristics. You can make yourself appear as 
a member of another species, though none of your 
statistics change. You can't appear as a creature of a 
different size, and your basic shape stays the same; 
if you're bipedal, you can't use this spell to become 
quadrupedal, for instance. For the duration, you can 
take a Magic action to change your appearance in 
this way again. 

Natural Weapons. You grow claws (Slashing), 
fangs (Piercing), horns (Piercing), or hooves (Blud- 
geoning). When you use your Unarmed Strike to 
deal damage with that new growth, it deals 1d6 
damage of the type in parentheses instead of deal- 
ing the normal damage for your Unarmed Strike, 
and you use your spellcasting ability modifier for 
the attack and damage rolls rather than using 
Strength. 


ANIMAL FRIENDSHIP 

Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food) 
Duration: 24 hours 


Target a Beast that you can see within range. The 
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or 
have the Charmed condition for the duration. If you 
or one of your allies deals damage to the target, the 
spells ends. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional Beast for each spell slot level above 1. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


ave re eee 


{ 239 


pud ” 


ANIMAL MESSENGER 
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action or Ritual 


Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food) 


Duration: 24 hours 

A Tiny Beast of your choice that you can see within 
range must succeed on a Charisma saving throw, or 
it attempts to deliver a message for you (if the tar- 
get's Challenge Rating isn't O, it automatically suc- 
ceeds). You specify a location you have visited anda 
recipient who matches a general description, such as 
“a person dressed in the uniform of the town guard" 
or "a red-haired dwarf wearing a pointed hat." You 
also communicate a message of up to twenty-five 
words. The Beast travels for the duration toward 
the specified location, covering about 25 miles per 
24 hours or 50 miles if the Beast can fly. 

When the Beast arrives, it delivers your message 
to the creature that you described, mimicking your 
communication. If the Beast doesn't reach its desti- 
nation before the spell ends, the message is lost, and 
the Beast returns to where you cast the spell. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell's dura- 
tion increases by 48 hours for each spell slot level 
above 2. 


ANIMAL SHAPES 

Level 8 Transmutation (Druid) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 24 hours 


Choose any number of willing creatures that you 
can see within range. Each target shape-shifts into 
a Large or smaller Beast of your choice that has a 
Challenge Rating of 4 or lower. You can choose a 
different form for each target. On later turns, you 
can take a Magic action to transform the targets 
again. 

A target's game statistics are replaced by the 
chosen Beast's statistics, but the target retains its 
creature type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; alignment; 
ability to communicate; and Intelligence, Wisdom, 
and Charisma scores. The target's actions are lim- 
ited by the Beast form's anatomy, and it can't cast 
spells. The target's equipment melds into the new 
form, and the target can't use any of that equipment 
while in that form. 

The target gains a number of Temporary Hit 
Points equal to the Beast form's Hit Points. The 
transformation lasts for the duration for each tar- 
get, until the target has no Temporary Hit Points, or 
until the target leaves the form as a Bonus Action. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


SL a eae ee ee eee 


ANIMATE DEAD 

Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric, Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood, a piece of 
flesh, and a pinch of bone dust) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Choose a pile of bones or a corpse of a Medium or 
Small Humanoid within range. The target becomes 
an Undead creature: a Skeleton if you chose bones 
or a Zombie if you chose a corpse (see appendix B 
for the stat blocks). 

On each of your turns, you can take a Bonus 
Action to mentally command any creature you 
made with this spell if the creature is within 60 
feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you 
can command any of them at the same time, issu- 
ing the same command to each one). You decide 
what action the creature will take and where it will 
move on its next turn, or you can issue a general 
command, such as to guard a chamber or corridor. 
If you issue no commands, the creature takes the 
Dodge action and moves only to avoid harm. Once 
given an order, the creature continues to follow it 
until its task is complete. 

The creature is under your control for 24 hours, 
after which it stops obeying any command you've 
given it. To maintain control of the creature for an- 
other 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the crea- 
ture again before the current 24-hour period ends. 
This use of the spell reasserts your control over up 
to four creatures you have animated with this spell 
rather than animating a new creature. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You animate or 
reassert control over two additional Undead crea- 
tures for each spell slot level above 3. Each of the 
creatures must come from a different corpse or pile 


of bones. 


ANIMATE OBJECTS 
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Objects animate at your command. Choose a num- 
ber of nonmagical objects within range that aren't 
being worn or carried, aren't fixed to a surface, and 
aren't Gargantuan. The maximum number of ob- 
jects is equal to your spellcasting ability modifier; 
for this number, a Medium or smaller target counts 
as one object, a Large target counts as two, and a 
Huge target counts as three. 


A BRATIER AFFECTED BY THE 
бре ANIMATE OBJECTS 


| ANIMATED OBJECT 
Huge or Smaller Construct, Unaligned 


AC 15 
HP 10 (Medium or smaller), 20 (Large), 40 (Huge) 
| Speed 30 ft. 


| 


|| 
| 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| Sra 16 +3 +3 Dex 10 +0 +0 Сом10 +0 +0 
INT 3 -4 -4 Wis 3 -4 -4 CHA] -5 -5 
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Exhaustion, 


Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned 
| Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Passive Perception 6 


| Languages Understands the languages you know 
| CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


ACTIONS 


A 


| Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: Force damage equal to 1d4 + 3 
(Medium or smaller), 2d6 + 3 + your spellcasting ability 
modifier (Large), or 2d12 + 3 + your spellcasting ability 


modifier (Huge). 


Each target animates, sprouts legs, and becomes 
a Construct that uses the Animated Object stat 
block; this creature is under your control until the 
spell ends or until it is reduced to O Hit Points. Each 
creature you make with this spell is an ally to you 
and your allies. In combat, it shares your Initiative 
count and takes its turn immediately after yours. 

Until the spe!l ends, you can take a Bonus Action 
to mentally command any creature you made with 


this spell if the creature is within 500 feet of you (if 
you control multiple creatures, you can command 
any of them at the same time, issuing the same 
command to each one). If you issue no commands, 
the creature takes the Dodge action and moves only 
to avoid harm. When the creature drops to O Hit 
Points, it reverts to its object form, and any remain- 
ing damage carries over to that form. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The creature's 
Slam damage increases by 1d4 (Medium or smaller), 


1d6 (Large), or 1d12 (Huge) for each spell slot level 
above 5. 


ANTILIFE SHELL 

Level 5 Abjuration (Druid) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


An aura extends from you in a 10-foot Emanation 
for the duration. The aura prevents creatures other 
than Constructs and Undead from passing or reach- 
ing through it. An affected creature can cast spells 
or make attacks with Ranged or Reach weapons 
through the barrier. 

If you move so that an affected creature is forced 
to pass through the barrier, the spell ends. 


ANTIMAGIC FIELD 

Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (iron filings) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


An aura of antimagic surrounds you in 10-foot Em- 
anation. No one can cast spells, take Magic actions, 
or create other magical effects inside the aura, and 
those things can't target or otherwise affect any- 
thing inside it. Magical properties of magic items 
don't work inside the aura or on anything inside it. 

Areas of effect created by spells or other magic 
can't extend into the aura, and no one can teleport 
into or out of it or use planar travel there. Portals 
close temporarily while in the aura. 

Ongoing spells, except those cast by an Artifact or 
a deity, are suppressed in the area. While an effect 
is suppressed, it doesn't function, but the time it 
spends suppressed counts against its duration. 

Dispel Magic has no effect on the aura, and the au- 
ras created by different Antimagic Field spells don't 
nullify each other. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


| 
I 
| 
| 
| 
| 
[ 
i 
| 


ANTIPATHY/SYMPATHY 
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 1 hour 


Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a mix of vinegar and honey) 


Duration: 10 days 

As you cast the spell, choose whether it creates an- 

tipathy or sympathy, and target one creature or ob- 

ject that is Huge or smaller. Then specify a kind of 
creature, such as red dragons, goblins, or vampires. 

A creature of the chosen kind makes a Wisdom 

saving throw when it comes within 120 feet of the 

target. Your choice of antipathy or sympathy deter- 
mines what happens to a creature when it fails that 
save: 

Antipathy. The creature has the Frightened condi- 
tion. The Frightened creature must use its move- 
ment on its turns to get as far away as possible 
from the target, moving by the safest route. 

Sympathy. The creature has the Charmed condi- 
tion. The Charmed creature must use its move- 
ment on its turns to get as close as possible to the 
target, moving by the safest route. If the creature 
is within 5 feet of the target, the creature can't 
willingly move away. If the target damages the 
Charmed creature, that creature can make a Wis- 
dom saving throw to end the effect, as described 
below. 


Ending the Effect. If the Frightened or Charmed 
creature ends its turn more than 120 feet away 
from the target, the creature makes a Wisdom sav- 
ing throw. On a successful save, the creature is no 
longer affected by the target. A creature that suc- 
cessfully saves against this effect is immune to it for 
1 minute, after which it can be affected again. 


ARCANE EYE 
Level 4 Divination (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of bat fur) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You create an Invisible, invulnerable eye within 
range that hovers for the duration. You mentally 
receive visual information from the eye, which can 
see in every direction. It also has Darkvision with a 
range of 30 feet. 

As a Bonus Action, you can move the eye up to 50 
feet in any direction. A solid barrier blocks the eye's 
movement, but the eye can pass through an opening 
as small as 1 inch in diameter. 


.. CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


ARCANE GATE 
Level 6 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 500 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You create linked teleportation portals. Choose two 
Large, unoccupied spaces on the ground that you 
can see, one space within range and the other one 
within 10 feet of you. A circular portal opens in 
each of those spaces and remains for the duration. 

The portals are two-dimensional glowing rings 
filled with mist that blocks sight. They hover inches 
from the ground and are perpendicular to it. 

A portal is open on only one side (you choose 
which). Anything entering the open side of a portal 
exits from the open side of the other portal as if the 
two were adjacent to each other. As a Bonus Action, 
you can change the facing of the open sides. 


ARCANE LOCK 
Level 2 Abjuration (Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (gold dust worth 25+ GP, which 


the spell consumes) 
Duration: Until dispelled 


You touch a closed door, window, gate, container, 

or hatch and magically lock it for the duration. This 
lock can't be unlocked by any nonmagical means. 
You and any creatures you designate when you cast 
the spell can open and close the object despite the 
lock. You can also set a password that, when spoken 
within 5 feet of the object, unlocks it for 1 minute. 


ARCANE VIGOR 
Level 2 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: Self 

Component: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You tap into your life force to heal yourself. Roll one 
or two of your unexpended Hit Point Dice, and re- 
gain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll's total 
plus your spellcasting ability modifier. Those dice 
are then expended. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The number of un- 
expended Hit Dice you can rcli increases by one for 
each spell slot level above 2. 


Ф 


>, 


гое FROM THE ОЕЕР а 
` è 


UN A d . "> 1 
^R 


ARMOR OF AGATHYS 
Level 1 Abjuration (Warlock) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a shard of blue glass) 
Duration: 1 hour 


Protective magical frost surrounds you. You gain 5 
Temporary Hit Points. If a creature hits you with a 
melee attack roll before the spell ends, the creature 
takes 5 Cold damage. The spell ends early if you 
have no Temporary Hit Points. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Temporary Hit 
Points and the Cold damage both increase by 5 for 
each spell slot level above 1. 


ARMS OF HADAR 
Level 1 Conjuration (Warlock) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Invoking Hadar, you cause tendrils to erupt from 
yourself. Eacl: creature in a 10-foot Emanation orig- 
inating from vou makes a Strength saving throw. 
On a failed savs, a target takes 2d6 Necrotic damage 


A GOLIATH WARLOCK CALLS ON ARMOR OF 
v  AGATHYS ANO ARMs OF HADAR TO BATTLE 


owt ха t dy 


and can't take Reactions until the start of its next 
turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as 
much damage only. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


ASTRAL PROJECTION 
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: V, S, M (for each of the spell's targets, 
one jacinth worth 1,000+ GP and one silver bar 
worth 100-- GP, all of which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Until dispelled 


You and up to eight willing creatures within range 
project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the 
spell ends instantly if you are already on that plane). 
Each target's body is left behind in a state of sus- 
pended animation; it has the Unconscious condition, 
doesn't need food or air, and doesn't age. 

A target's astral form resembles its body in almost 
every way, replicating its game statistics and pos- 
sessions. The principal difference is the addition of 
а silvery cord that trails from between the shoulder 
blades of the astral form. The cord fades from view — — 
after 1 foot. If the cord is cut—which happens only —— - 
when an effect states that it does so—the target's 
body and astral form both die. ; 


A target's astral form can travel through the As- 
tral Plane. The moment an astral form leaves that 
plane, the target's body and possessions travel along 
the silver cord, causing the target to re-enter its 


body on the new plane. 
Any damage or other effects that apply to an as- 


tral form have no effect on the target's body and 
vice versa. If a target's body or astral form drops to 
O Hit Points, the spell ends for that target. The spell 
ends for all the targets if you take a Magic action to 
dismiss it. 

When the spell ends for a target who isn't dead, 
the target reappears in its body and exits the state 
of suspended animation. 


AUGURY 

Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (specially marked sticks, bones, 
cards, or other divinatory tokens worth 25+ GP) 


Duration: Instantaneous 


You receive an omen from an otherworldly entity 
about the results of a course of action that you 
plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The DM 
chooses the omen from the Omens table. 


OMENS 
Omen For Results That Will Ве... 
Weal Good 
Woe Bad 


Good and bad 
Neither good nor bad 


Weal and woe 
Indifference 


The spell doesn’t account for circumstances, such as 
other spells, that might change the results. 

If you cast the spell more than once before finish- 
ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent 
chance for each casting after the first that you get 
no answer. 


AURA OF LIFE 
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 


| Casting Time: Action 
j Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


| An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation 
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your 

| allies have Resistance to Necrotic damage, and your 

| Hit Point maximums can't be reduced. If an ally 

| with О Hit Points starts its turn in the aura, that 

= ally regains 1 Hit Point. 


rs 


TER 7 | SPELLS 


Gente ^tt ao 


AURA OF PURITY 
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 

An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation 
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your 
allies have Resistance to Poison damage and Advan- 
tage on saving throws to avoid or end effects that 
include the Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Fright- 
ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition. 


AURA OF VITALITY 
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 


Components: V 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation 
for the duration. When you create the aura and at 
the start of each of your turns while it persists, you 
can restore 2d6 Hit Points to one creature in it. 


AWAKEN 
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard, Druid) 


Casting Time: 8 hours 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (an agate worth 1,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You spend the casting time tracing magical path- 
ways within a precious gemstone, and then touch 
the target. The target must be either a Beast or 
Plant creature with an Intelligence of 3 or less or a 
natural plant that isn't a creature. The target gains 
an Intelligence of 10 and the ability to speak one 
language you know. If the target is a natural plant, 
it becomes a Plant creature and gains the ability 
to move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so 
forth, and it gains senses similar to a human's. The 
DM chooses statistics appropriate for the awak- 
ened Plant, such as the statistics for the Awakened 
Shrub or Awakened Tree in the Monster Manual. 
The awakened target has the Charmed condition 
for 50 days or until you or your allies deal damage 
to it. When that condition ends, the awakened crea- 
ture chooses its attitude toward you. 


su MM 


——— a! 


BANE 

Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Warlock) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Up to three creatures of your choice that you can 
see within range must each make a Charisma saving 
throw. Whenever a target that fails this save makes 
an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell 
ends, the target must subtract 1d4 from the attack 
roll or save. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. 


BANISHING SMITE 

Level 5 Conjuration (Paladin) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 

Range: Self 

Component: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


The target hit by the attack roll takes an extra 5d10 
Force damage from the attack. If the attack reduces 
the target to 50 Hit Points or fewer, the target must 
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be trans- 
ported to a harmless demiplane for the duration. 
While there, the target has the Incapacitated con- 
dition. When the spell ends, the target reappears in 
the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if 
that space is occupied. 


BANISHMENT 


Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a pentacle) 
Duration: Concentration, up to ] minute 


One creature that you can see within range must 
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be trans- 
ported to a harmless demiplane for the duration. 
While there, the target has the Incapacitated con- 
dition. When the spell ends, the target reappears in 
the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if 
that space is occupied. 

If the target is an Aberration, a Celestial, an Ele- 
mental, a Fey, or a Fiend, the target doesn't return 
if the spell lasts for 1 minute. The target is instead 


ans rm to a random location on a plane (DM's 
choice associated with its creature type. 

Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4. 


co 


BARKSKIN 

Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Touch 


Component: V, S, M (a handful of bark) 
Duration: 1 hour 


You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, 
the target's skin assumes a bark-like appearance, 


and the target has an Armor Class of 17 if its AC is 
lower than that. 


BEACON OF HOPE 

Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Choose any number of creatures within range. For 
the duration, each target has Advantage on Wis- 
dom saving throws and Death Saving Throws and 
regains the maximum number of Hit Points possible 
from any healing. 


BEAST SENSE 

Level 2 Divination (Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: Touch 

Components: S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You touch a willing Beast. For the duration, you can 
perceive through the Beast’s senses as well as your 
own. When perceiving through the Beast's senses, 
you benefit from any special senses it has. 


i 
$ 


BEFUDDLEMENT 

Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet i 
Components: V, S, M (a key ring with no keys) | 
Duration: Instantaneous | 


You blast the mind of a creature that you can see 
within range. The target makes an Intelligence sav- 
ing throw. 


yx CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 
ИН PP 


' 
THe Wizard BicBv USES HIS SIGNATURE SPELL, — 
BicBv's HAND, TO PREVENT INTERRUPTIONS 


TO HIS M". y 


On a failed save, the target takes 10d12 Psychic 
damage and can't cast spells or take the Magic ac- 
tion. At the end of every 30 days, the target repeats 
the save, ending the effect on a success. The effect 
can also be ended by the Greater Restoration, Heal, or 
Wish spell. 

On a successful save, the target takes half as much 
damage only. 


BESTOW CURSE 
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


ak You touch a creature, which must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw or become cursed for the du- 
ration. Until the curse ends, the target suffers one of 
the following effects of your choice: 


- Choose one ability. The target has Disadvantage 
on ability checks and saving throws made with 
that ability. 

- The target has Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against you. 


.— CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 
> s» a Medie tet Lar a 


рь dr maps. ctp "Cd 


- In combat, the target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw at the start of each of its turns or be 
forced to take the Dodge action on that turn. 

- If you deal damage to the target with an attack 
roll or a spell, the target takes an extra 1d8 Ne- 
crotic damage. 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you cast this 
spell using a level 4 spell slot, you can maintain 
Concentration on it for up to 10 minutes. If you use 
a level 5+ spell slot, the spell doesn't require Con- 
centration, and the duration becomes 8 hours (level 
5-6 slot) or 24 hours (level 7-8 slot). If you use a 
level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until dispelled. 


BicBy’s HAND 
Level 5 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (an eggshell and a glove) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You create a Large hand of shiminering magical en- 
ergy in an unoccupied space that уои can see within 
range. The hand lasts for the duration, and it moves 
at your command, mimicking the *«iovements of 
your own hand. 


| 


- А АА a т 
-E 1 (i ЕВ 


The hand :> an object that has AC 20 and Hit 
Points equa! to your Hit Point maximum. If it drops 
to О Hit Points, the spell ends. The hand doesn't oc- 
cupy its space. 

When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action on 
your later turns, you can move the hand up to 60 
feet and then cause one of the following effects: 


Clenched Fist. The hand strikes a target within 5 
feet of it. Make a melee spell attack. On a hit, the 
target takes 5d8 Force damage. 

Forceful Hand. The hand attempts to push a Huge 
or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The target 
must succeed on a Strength saving throw, or the 
hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus a number 
of feet equal to five times your spellcasting ability 
modifier. The hand moves with the target, remain- 
ing within 5 feet of it. 

Grasping Hand. The hand attempts to grapple a 
Huge or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The 
target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw, 
or the target has the Grappled condition, with an 
escape DC equal to your spell save DC. While the 
hand grapples the target, you can take a Bonus 
Action to cause the hand to crush it, dealing Blud- 
geoning damage to the target equal to 4d6 plus 
your spellcasting ability modifier. 

Interposing Hand. The hand grants you Half Cover 
against attacks and other effects that originate 
from its space or that pass through it. In addi- 
tion, its space counts as Difficult Terrain for your 
enemies. 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of the 
Clenched Fist increases by 2d8 and the damage of 
the Grasping Hand increases by 2d6 for each spell 
slot level above 5. 


BLADE BARRIER 
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You create a wall of whirling blades made of magi- 
cal energy. The wall appears within range and lasts 
for the duration. You make a straight wall up to 100 
feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a ringed 
wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 5 
feet thick. The wall provides Three-Quarters Cover, 
and its space is Difficult Terrain. 

Any creature in the wall's space makes a Dexterity 
saving throw. taking 6d10 Force damage on a failed 
save or half ¿s rnuch damage on a successful one. A 
creature alse wakes that save if it enters the wall's 
space or ens it turn there. A creature makes that 
save only oi.’ per turn. 1 


— CORR C 


oh 


BLADE WARD 

Abjuration Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Whenever a creature makes an attack roll against 


you before the spell ends, the attacker subtracts 1d4 
from the attack roll. 


BLESS 

Level 1 Enchantment (Cleric, Paladin) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 


Components: V, S, M (a Holy Symbol worth 5+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You bless up to three creatures within range. 
Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a saving 
throw before the spell ends, the target adds 1d4 to 
the attack roll or save. 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. 


BLIGHT 

Level 4 Necromancy (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


A creature that you can see within range makes 
a Constitution saving throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on 
a successful one. A Plant creature automatically 
fails the save. 

Alternatively, target a nonmagical plant that isn't 
a creature, such as a tree or shrub. It doesn't make a 
save; it simply withers and dies. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4. 


BLINDING SMITE 
Level 3 Evocation (Paladin) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 

Range: Self 

Component: V 

Duration: 1 minute 


The target hit by the strike takes an extra 3d8 Radi- 
ant damage from the attack, and the target has the 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


E 


Blinded condition until the spell ends. At the end of 
each of its turns, the Blinded target makes a Consti- 
tution saving throw, ending the spell on itself on a 


success. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The extra damage 


increases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3. 


BLINDNESS/DEAFNESS 

Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: 1 minute 

One creature that you can see within range must 
succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or it has 
the Blinded or Deafened condition (your choice) 
for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the 
target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on 


a success. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2. 


BLINK 
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: ] minute 


Roll 1d6 at the end of each of your turns for the du- 
ration. On a roll of 4-6, you vanish from your cur- 
rent plane of existence and appear in the Ethereal 
Plane (the spell ends instantly if you are already on 
that plane). While on the Ethereal Plane, you can 
perceive the plane you left, which is cast in shades 
of gray, but you can't see anything there more than 
60 feet away. You can affect and be affected only 
by other creatures on the Ethereal Plane, and crea- 
tures on the other plane can't perceive you unless 
they have a special ability that lets them perceive 
things on the Ethereal Plane. 

You return to the other plane at the start of your 
next turn and when the spell ends if you are on the 
Ethereal Plane. You return to an unoccupied space 
of your choice that you can see within 10 feet of the 
space you left. If no unoccupied space is available 
within that range, you appear in the nearest unoc- 
cupied space. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


oT PEN — 


BLUR 

Level 2 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

Your body becomes blurred. For the duration, any 
creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls against 
you. An attacker is immune to this effect if it per- 
ceives you with Blindsight or Truesight. 


BURNING HANDS 

Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


A thin sheet of flames shoots forth from you. Each 
creature in a 15-foot Cone makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 3d6 Fire damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one. 

Flammable objects in the Cone that aren't being 
worn or carried start burning. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


CALL LIGHTNING 
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


A storm cloud appears at a point within range that 
you can see above yourself. It takes the shape of a 
Cylinder that is 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius. 

When you cast the spell, choose a point you can 
see under the cloud. A lightning bolt shoots from 
the cloud to that point. Each creature within 5 feet 
of that point makes a Dexterity saving throw, tak- 
ing 3d10 Lightning damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one. 

Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action 
to call down lightning in that way again, targeting 
the same point or a different one. 

If you're outdoors in a storm when you cast this 
spell, the spell gives you control over that storm in- 
stead of creating a new one. Under such conditions, 
the spell's damage increases by 1410). 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Yhe damage in- 
creases Бу 1410 for each speli sioi ievel above 3. 


CALM EMOTIONS 

Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: У, 5 

Duration: Concentration, ир to 1 minute 


Each Humanoid in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered 
on a point you choose within range must succeed 
on a Charisma saving throw or be affected by one of 
the following effects (choose for each creature): 


. The creature has Immunity to the Charmed and 
Frightened conditions until the spell ends. If the 
creature was already Charmed or Frightened, 
those conditions are suppressed for the duration. 

. The creature becomes Indifferent about crea- 
tures of your choice that it's Hostile toward. This 
indifference ends if the target takes damage or 
witnesses its allies taking damage. When the spell 
ends, the creature's attitude returns to normal. 


CHAIN LIGHTNING 

Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (three silver pins) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You launch a lightning bolt toward a target you can 
see within range. Three bolts then leap from that 
target to as many as three other targets of your 
choice, each of which must be within 30 feet of the 
first target. A target can be a creature or an object 
and can be targeted by only one of the bolts. 

Each target makes a Dexterity saving throw, tak- 
ing 10d8 Lightning damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. One additional bolt 
leaps from the first target to another target for each 
spell slot level above 6. 


CHARM MONSTER 
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: ] hour 


One creature you can see within range makes a 
Wisdom saving throw. It does so with Advantage 
if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failed save, 
the target has the Charmed condition until the 


í >К 
#7 er 
т MM me 


spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The 
Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the 
spell ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4. 


рса ан 

CHARM PERSON 

Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 1 hour 


One Humanoid you can see within range makes a 

Wisdom saving throw. It does so with Advantage 

if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failed save, 

the target has the Charmed condition until the 

spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The 

Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the 

spell ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 

additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. 


CHILL ToucH 

Necromancy Cantrip (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Channeling the chill of the grave, make a melee 
spell attack against a target within reach. On a hit, 
the target takes 1d10 Necrotic damage, and it can't 
regain Hit Points until the end of your next turn. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d10 
when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17 
(4d10). 


CHROMATIC ORB 

Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 


Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 50+ GP) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You hurl an orb of energy at a target within range. 
Choose Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, or Thun- 
der for the type of orb you create, and then make a 
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the 
target takes 3d8 damage of the chosen type. 

If you roll the same number on two or more of 
the d8s, the orb leaps to a different target of your 
choice within 30 feet of the target. Make an attack 


erm CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


Bl 


_ CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


roll against the new target, and make a new damage 
roll. The orb can’t leap again unless you cast the 
spell with a level 2+ spell slot. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1. The 
orb can leap a maximum number of times equal to 
the level of the slot expended, and a creature can be 
targeted only once by each casting of this spell. 


CIRCLE OF DEATH 
Level 6 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (the powder of a crushed black 
pearl worth 500+ GP) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot-radius 
Sphere from a point you choose within range. Each 
creature in that area makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 6. 


Y (ML 
La HUMAN SORCERER CHASTISES GHOULS 
_ WITH THE UNPREDICTABLE ENERGY OF A 


I CHROMATIC ORB. 


CIRCLE OF POWER 
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation 
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your al- 
lies have Advantage on saving throws against spells 
and other magical effects. When an affected crea- 


ture makes a saving throw against a spell or magical 


effect that allows a save to take only half damage, it 
takes no damage if it succeeds on the save. 


CLAIRVOYANCE 
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: 1 mile 

Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 100+ GP, either a 
jeweled horn for hearing ога gisss eye for seeing) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 :ainutes 


You create an Invisible senso: viinin range ina 
location familiar to you (a pise узи have visited 


NA Wir 


ZUZAM 


J -—H 


or seen before) or in an obvious location that is 
unfamiliar to you (such as behind a door, around a 
corner, or in a grove of trees). The intangible, invul- 
nerable sensor remains in place for the duration. 

When you cast the spell, choose seeing or hearing. 
You can use the chosen sense through the sensor as 
if you were in its space. As a Bonus Action, you can 
switch between seeing and hearing. 

A creature that sees the sensor (such as a creature 
benefiting from See Invisibility or Truesight) sees a 
luminous orb about the size of your fist. 


CLONE 

Level 8 Necromancy (Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes, and a sealable vessel 
worth 2,0004 GP that is large enough to hold the 
creature being cloned) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch a creature or at least 1 cubic inch of its 
flesh. An inert duplicate of that creature forms 
inside the vessel used in the spell's casting and fin- 
ishes growing after 120 days; you choose whether 
the finished clone is the same age as the creature or 
younger. The clone remains inert and endures indef- 
initely while its vessel remains undisturbed. 

If the original creature dies after the clone fin- 
ishes forming, the creature's soul transfers to the 
clone if the soul is free and willing to return. The 
clone is physically identical to the original and has 
the same personality, memories, and abilities, but 
none of the original's equipment. The creature's 
original remains, if any, become inert and can't be 
revived, since the creature's soul is elsewhere. 


CLOUDKILL 
Level 5 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow-green 
fog centered on a point within range. The fog lasts 
for the duration or until strong wind (such as the 
one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it, ending the 
spell. Its area is Heavily Obscured. 

Each creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution 
saving throw, isking 548 Poison damage on a failed 
save or half as rauch damage on a successful one. A 
creature mus: зо make this save when the Sphere 
moves into its «ace and when it enters the Sphere 


or ends its turn there. A creature makes this save 
only once per turn. 


The Sphere moves 10 feet away from you at the 
start of each of your turns. 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5. 


CLOUD or DAGGERS 

Level 2 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a sliver of glass) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You conjure spinning daggers in a 5-foot Cube 
centered on a point within range. Each creature in 
that area takes 4d4 Slashing damage. A creature 
also takes this damage if it enters the Cube or ends 
its turn there or if the Cube moves into its space. A 
creature takes this damage only once per turn. 

On your later turns, you can take a Magic action 
to teleport the Cube up to 30 feet. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 2. 


COLOR SPRAY 

Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 


Components: V, S, M (a pinch of colorful sand) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You launch a dazzling array of flashing, colorful 
light. Each creature in a 15-foot Cone originating 
from you must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw or have the Blinded condition until the end of 
your next turn. 


COMMAND 
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Paladin) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You speak a one-word command to a creature you 
can see within range. The target must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw or follow the command on its 
next turn. Choose the command from these options: 


Approach. The target moves toward you by the 
shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it 
moves within 5 feet of you. 

Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and 
then ends its turn. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS / 251 


| 
| 
| 
| 


Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from 


you by the fastest available means. . 
Grovel. The target has the Prone condition and 


then ends its turn. 
Halt. On its turn, the target doesn't move and takes 


no action or Bonus Action. 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can affect one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. 


COMMUNE 

Level 5 Divination (Cleric) 

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (incense) 

Duration: 1 minute 

You contact a deity or a divine proxy and ask up 
to three questions that can be answered with yes 
or no. You must ask your questions before the 
spell ends. You receive a correct answer for each 


question. 

Divine beings aren't necessarily omniscient, so 
you might receive "unclear" as an answer if a ques- 
tion pertains to information that lies beyond the 
deity's knowledge. In a case where a one-word an- 
swer could be misleading or contrary to the deity's 
interests, the DM might offer a short phrase as an 


answer instead. 
If you cast the spell more than once before finish- 


ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent 
chance for each casting after the first that you get 
no answer. 


COMMUNE WITH NATURE 
Level 5 Divination (Druid, Ranger) 


Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 
Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You commune with nature spirits and gain knowl- 
edge of the surrounding area. In the outdoors, the 
spell gives you knowledge of the area within 5 miles 
of you. In caves and other natural underground 
settings, the radius is limited to 500 feet. The spell 
doesn't function where nature has been replaced by 
construction, such as in castles and settlements. 

Choose three of the following facts; you learn 
those facts as they pertain to the spell's area: 


- Locations of settlements 

- Locations of portals to other planes of existence 

· Location of one Challenge Rating 10+ creature 
(DM's choice) that is a Celestial, an Elemental, a 
Fey, a Fiend, or an Undead 


252 CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 
OE m ^ EMT 


ҤЕ 


- The most prevalent kind of plant, mineral, ог 
Beast (you choose which to learn) 

- Locations of bodies of water 

For example, you could determine the location of a 

powerful monster in the area, the locations of bod- 

ies of water, and the locations of any towns. 


COMPELLED DUEL 

Level 1 Enchantment (Paladin) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

You try to compel a creature into a duel. One crea- 
ture that you can see within range makes a Wisdom 
saving throw. On a failed save, the target has Disad- 
vantage on attack rolls against creatures other than 
you, and it can't willingly move to a space that is 
more than 30 feet away from you. 

The spell ends if you make an attack roll against a 
creature other than the target, if you cast a spell on 
an enemy other than the target, if an ally of yours 
damages the target, or if you end your turn more 
than 30 feet away from the target. 


COMPREHEND LANGUAGES 
Level Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of soot and salt) 


Duration: 1 hour 


For the duration, you understand the literal mean- 
ing of any language that you hear or see signed. You 
also understand any written language that you see, 
but you must be touching the surface on which the 
words are written. It takes about 1 minute to read 
one page of text. This spell doesn't decode symbols 
or secret messages. 


COMPULSION 
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Each creature of your choice that you can see 

within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or have the Charmed condition until the spell 
ends. 


THe icy Wizaro Orituke BLASTS 


MONSTERS wiTH CONE OF COLO 
Р 


For the duration, you can take a Bonus Action to 
designate a direction that is horizontal to you. Each CONFUSION 
Charmed target must use as much of its movement Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
as possible to move in that direction on its next 
turn, taking the safest route. After moving in this 
way, a target repeats the save, ending the spell on 
itself on a success. 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (three nut shells) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Each creature in a 10-foot-radius Sphere centered 


CONE OF COLD on a point you choose within range must succeed 


Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) on a Wisdom saving throw, or that target can't take 
Casting Time: Action Bonus Actions or Reactions and must roll 1d10 at 
Range: Self the start of each of its turns to determine its behav- 
Components: V, S, M (a small crystal or glass cone) ior for that turn, consulting the table below. 
Duration: Instantaneous 1d10 Behavior for the Turn 

You unleash a blast of cold air. Each creature in a l  Thetarget doesn't take an action, and it uses 
60-foot Cone originating from you makes a Consti- all its movement to move. Roll 1d4 for the di- 
tution saving throw, taking 8d8 Cold damage ona rection: 1, north; 2, east; 3, south; or 4, west. 
failed save or half as much damage on a successful 2-6 The target doesn't move or take actions. 


one. A creature killed by this spell becomes a frozen : и 
ТЕАТРЕ 7-8 Тһе target doesn't move, and it takes the At- 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- tack action to make one melee attack against | 
creases by 148 for each spell slot level above 5. a random creature within reach. If none are | 
within reach, the target takes no action. | 

| 


9-10 The target chooses its behavior. 


$ CHAPTER7|SPELLS | 253 | 
мы ы. } ee н о АЁ МЫН и ый, le tea e су CE 


a 


At the end of each of its turns, an affected tar- 
get repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a 


success. | 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Sphere's radius 


increases by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 4. 


CONJURE ANIMALS 
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 


Components: V, S 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You conjure nature spirits that appear as a Large 
pack of spectral, intangible animals in an unoccu- 
pied space you can see within range. The pack lasts 
for the duration, and you choose the spirits' animal 
form, such as wolves, serpents, or birds. 

You have Advantage on Strength saving throws 
while you're within 5 feet of the pack, and when you 
move on your turn, you can also move the pack up 
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see. 

Whenever the pack moves within 10 feet of a 
creature you can see and whenever a creature you 
can see enters a space within 10 feet of the pack or 
ends its turn there, you can force that creature to 
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the 
creature takes 3d10 Slashing damage. A creature 
makes this save only once per turn. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 3. 


CONJURE BARRAGE 

Level 3 Conjuration (Ranger) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon 
worth at least 1 CP) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You brandish the weapon used to cast the spell and 
conjure similar spectral weapons (or ammunition 
appropriate to the weapon) that launch forward and 
then disappear. Each creature of your choice that 
you can see in a 60-foot Cone makes a Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 5d8 Force damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3. 


k CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


— es ~~ 


CONJURE CELESTIAL 

Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 

You conjure a spirit from the Upper Planes, which 
manifests as a pillar of light in a 10-foot-radius, 
40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a point within 
range. For each creature you can see in the Cylin- 
der, choose which of these lights shines on it: 


Healing Light. The target regains Hit Points equal 
to 4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. 

Searing Light. The target makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 6d12 Radiant damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. 


Until the spell ends, Bright Light fills the Cylinder, 
and when you move on your turn, you can also 
move the Cylinder up to 30 feet. 

Whenever the Cylinder moves into the space of a 
creature you can see and whenever a creature you 
can see enters the Cylinder or ends its turn there, 
you can bathe it in one of the lights. A creature can 
be affected by this spell only once per turn. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing and 
damage increase by 1d12 for each spell slot level 
above 7. 


CONJURE ELEMENTAL 
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You conjure a Large, intangible spirit from the Ele- 
mental Planes that appears in an unoccupied space 
within range. Choose the spirit's element, which 
determines its damage type: air (Lightning), earth 
(Thunder), fire (Fire), or water (Cold). The spirit 
lasts for the duration. 

Whenever a creature you can see enters the 
spirit’s space or starts its turn within 5 feet of the 
spirit, you can force that creature to make a Dex- 
terity saving throw if the spirit has no creature 
Restrained. On failed save, the target takes 8d8 
damage of the spirit's type, and the target has the 
Restrained condition until the speli ends. At the 
start of each of its turns, the Restrained target re- 
peats the save. On a failed save. tihe target takes 448 
damage of the spirit's type. On a :':ccessful save, the 
target isn't Restrained by the 5р1. 

Using a Higher-Level Speil Siot. 11. damage in- 
creases by 2d8 for each spei! slot 'ovel above 5. 


ЫЫ 0 


GONJURE “EY 

Level 6 Conjuration (Druid) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: У, 5 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You conjure a Medium spirit from the Feywild in 
an unoccupied space you can see within range. The 
spirit lasts for the duration, and it looks like a Fey 
creature of your choice. When the spirit appears, 
you can make one melee spell attack against a crea- 
ture within 5 feet of it. On a hit, the target takes 
Psychic damage equal to 5d12 plus your spellcasting 
ability modifier, and the target has the Frightened 
condition until the start of your next turn, with 
both you and the spirit as the source of the fear. 

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can 
teleport the spirit to an unoccupied space you can 
see within 30 feet of the space it left and make the 
attack against a creature within 5 feet of it. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 2d12 for each spell slot level above 6. 


CoNJURE MINOR ELEMENTALS 
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, 5 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You conjure spirits from the Elemental Planes that 
flit around you in a 15-foot Emanation for the dura- 
tion. Until the spell ends, any attack you make deals 
an extra 2d8 damage when you hit a creature in 
the Emanation. This damage is Acid, Cold, Fire, or 
Lightning (your choice when you make the attack). 

In addition, the ground in the Emanation is Diffi- 
cult Terrain for your enemies. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 4. 


CONJURE VOLLEY 
Level 5 Conjuration (Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon 
worth at least 1 CP) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You brandish the weapon used to cast the spell and 
choose a point within range. Hundreds of similar 
spectral weapons (or ammunition appropriate to 
the weapon) ‘2:1 in a volley and then disappear. 


ch creature of your choice that you can see in a 
40-foot-radius, 20-foot-high Cylinder centered on 
that point makes a Dexterity saving throw. A crea- 
ture takes 8d8 Force damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one. 


ILL EE 


CoNJURE WOODLAND BEINGS 

Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You conjure nature spirits that flit around you in a 
10-foot Emanation for the duration. Whenever the 
Emanation enters the space of a creature you can 
see and whenever a creature you can see enters the 
Emanation or ends its turn there, you can force that 
creature to make a Wisdom saving throw. The crea- 
ture takes 5d8 Force damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one. A creature 
makes this save only once per turn. 

In addition, you can take the Disengage action as a 
Bonus Action for the spell's duration. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5. 


CONTACT OTHER PLANE 

Level 5 Divination (Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 
Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: 1 minute 


You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit of a 
long-dead sage, or some other knowledgeable entity 
from another plane. Contacting this otherworldly 
intelligence can break your mind. When you cast 
this spell, make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw. 
On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to 
five questions. You must ask your questions before VES 
the spell ends. The DM answers each question with — : 
one word, such as “yes,” “no,” “maybe,” “never,” "ir- 
relevant,” or “unclear” (if the entity doesn't know — . 
the answer to the question). If a one-word answer | Ped 
would be misleading, the DM might instead offera * 
short phrase as an answer. | 

Оп a failed save, you take 646 Psychic damage | 
and have the Incapacitated condition until you fin- _ 
ish a Long Rest. A Greater Restoration spell cast on _ 
you ends this effect. i 


B 


CONTAGION 
Level 5 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Component: V, S 

Duration: 7 days 

Your touch inflicts a magical contagion. The target 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or 
take 11d8 Necrotic damage and have the Poisoned 
condition. Also, choose one ability when you cast 
the spell. While Poisoned, the target has Disadvan- 
tage on saving throws made with the chosen ability. 

The target must repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns until it gets three successes 
or failures. If the target succeeds on three of these 
saves, the spell ends on the target. If the target fails 
three of the saves, the spell lasts for 7 days on it. 
Whenever the Poisoned target receives an effect 

that would end the Poisoned condition, the target 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or the 
Poisoned condition doesn't end on it. 


CONTINGENCY 
Level 6 Abjuration (Wizard) 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 


Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted statuette of 


yourself worth 1,500+ GP) 
Duration: 10 days 


Choose a spell of level 5 or lower that you can cast, 
that has a casting time of an action, and that can 
target you. You cast that spell—called the contin- 
gent spell—as part of casting Contingency, expending 
spell slots for both, but the contingent spell doesn't 
come into effect. Instead, it takes effect when a cer- 
tain trigger occurs. You describe that trigger when 
you cast the two spells. For example, a Contingency 
cast with Water Breathing might stipulate that Water 
Breathing comes into effect when you are engulfed 
in water or a similar liquid. 

The contingent spell takes effect immediately af- 
ter the trigger occurs for the first time, whether or 
not you want it to, and then Contingency ends. 

The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even 
if it can normally target others. You can use only 
one Contingency spell at a time. If you cast this spell 
again, the effect of another Contingency spell on you 
ends. Also, Contingency ends on you if its material 
component is ever not on your person. 


_ CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


TEE um К 


CONTINUAL FLAME 
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 50+ GP, which 


the spell consumes) 
Duration: Until dispelled 
A flame springs from an object that you touch. The 
effect casts Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and 
Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. It looks like a 
regular flame, but it creates no heat and consumes 
no fuel. The flame can be covered or hidden but not 
smothered or quenched. 


CONTROL WATER 
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 300 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a mixture of water and dust) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


Until the spell ends, you control any water inside an 
area you choose that is a Cube up to 100 feet on a 
side, using one of the following effects. As a Magic 
action on your later turns, you can repeat the same 
effect or choose a different one. 

Flood. You cause the water level of all standing 
water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If 
you choose an area in a large body of water, you 
instead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from 
one side of the area to the other and then crashes. 
Any Huge or smaller vehicles in the wave's path 
are carried with it to the other side. Any Huge or 
smaller vehicles struck by the wave have a 25 per- 
cent chance of capsizing. 

The water level remains elevated until the spell 
ends or you choose a different effect. If this effect 
produced a wave, the wave repeats on the start of 
your next turn while the flood effect lasts. 

Part Water. You part water in the area and cre- 
ate a trench. The trench extends across the spell's 
area, and the separated water forms a wall to either 
side. The trench remains until the spell ends or you 
choose a different effect. The water then slowly fills 
in the trench over the course of the next round un- 
til the normal water level is restored. 

Redirect Flow. You cause flowing water in the area 
to move in a direction you choose, even if the wa- 
ter has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other 
unlikely directions. The water in the area moves as 
you direct it, but once it moves beyond the spell's 
area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain. The 
water continues to move in the direction you chose 
until the spell ends or you choose a different effect. 


A BRASS ORAGON cASTS CONTROL WEATHER TO 
SAVE A COMMUNITY FROM A OESTRUCTIVE STORM 


ha . Wü 


Whirlpool. You cause a whirlpool to form in the 
center of the area, which must be at least 50 feet 
square and 25 feet deep. The whirlpool lasts until 
you choose a different effect or the spell ends. The 
whirlpool is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet 
wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature in the 
water and within 25 feet of the whirlpool is pulled 
10 feet toward it. When a creature enters the whirl- 
pool for the first time on a turn or ends its turn 
there, it makes a Strength saving throw. On a failed 
save, the creature takes 2d8 Bludgeoning damage. PRECIPITATION 
On a successful save, the creature takes half as 
much damage. A creature can swim away from 


DM. You can change precipitation, temperature, 
and wind. It takes 144 х 10 minutes for the new 
conditions to take effect. Once they do so, you can 
change the conditions again. When the spell ends, 
the weather gradually returns to normal. 

When you change the weather conditions, find 
a current condition on the following tables and 
change its stage by one, up or down. When chang- 
ing the wind, you can change its direction. 


Stage Condition 


l Clea 
the whirlpool only if it first takes an action to pull я Á 
away and succeeds on a Strength (Athletics) check 2 Light clouds 
against your spell save DC. 3 Overcast or ground fog 

4 Rain, hail, or snow 

CONTROL WEATHER 5 Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard 
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 10 minutes TEMPERATURE WIND 
Range: Self Stage Condition Stage Condition 


Components: V, S, M (burning incense) 


l  Heatwave maim 
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours 


Hot Moderate wind 


You take control of the weather within 5 miles of 
you for the duration. You must be outdoors to cast 


2 2 

3 Warm 3 
this spell, and it ends early if you go indoors. н Cool н Gale 

6 


Strong wind 


When you cast the spell, you change the current Cold Storm 
weather conditions, which are determined by the Freezing 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS | 257 


CORDON OF ARROWS 
Level 2 Transmutation (Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (an ornamental braid) 


Duration: 8 hours 
You touch up to four nonmagical Arrows or Bolts 
and plant them in the ground in your space. Until 
the spell ends, the ammunition can't be physically 
uprooted, and whenever a creature other than you 
enters a space within 30 feet of the ammunition for 
the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, one 
piece of ammunition flies up to strike it. The crea- 
ture must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or 
take 2d4 Piercing damage. The piece of ammunition 
is then destroyed. The spell ends when none of the 
ammunition remains planted in the ground. 

When you cast this spell, you can designate any 
creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The amount of am- 
munition that can be affected increases by two for 
each spell slot level above 2. 


COUNTERSPELL 

Level 3 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you see 
a creature within 60 feet of yourself casting a spell 
with Verbal, Somatic, or Material components 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process 
of casting a spell. The creature makes a Constitu- 
tion saving throw. On a failed save, the spell dissi- 
pates with no effect, and the action, Bonus Action, 
or Reaction used to cast it is wasted. If that spell 
was cast with a spell slot, the slot isn't expended. 


CREATE FOOD AND WATER 
Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You create 45 pounds of food and 30 gallons of 
fresh water on the ground or in containers within 
range—both useful in fending off the hazards of 
malnutrition and dehydration. The food is bland but 
nourishing and looks like a food of your choice, and 
the water is clean. The food spoils after 24 hours if 
uneaten. 


CREATE OR DESTROY WATER 
Level 1 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a mix of water and sand) 


Duration: Instantaneous 

You do one of the following: 

Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean 
water within range in an open container. Alter- 
natively, the water falls as rain in a 30-foot Cube 
within range, extinguishing exposed flames there, 

Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallons of 
water in an open container within range. Alter- 
natively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot Cube within 
range. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create or de- 
stroy 10 additional gallons of water, or the size of 
the Cube increases by 5 feet, for each spell slot leve] 
above 1. 


CREATE UNDEAD 
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: V, S, M (one 150+ GP black onyx stone 
for each corpse) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You can cast this spell only at night. Choose up 
to three corpses of Medium or Small Humanoids 
within range. Each one becomes a Ghoul under 
your control (see the Monster Manual for its stat 
block). 

As a Bonus Action on each of your turns, you can 
mentally command any creature you animated with 
this spell if the creature is within 120 feet of you (if 
you control multiple creatures, you can command 
any of them at the same time, issuing the same com- 
mand to them). You decide what action the creature 
will take and where it will move on its next turn, or 
you can issue a general command, such as to guard 
a particular place. If you issue no commands, the 
creature takes the Dodge action and moves only to 
avoid harm. Once given an order, the creature con- 
tinues to follow the order until its task is complete. 

The creature is under your control for 24 hours, 
after which it stops obeying any command you've 
given it. To maintain control of the creature for 
another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the 
creature before the current 24-hour period ends. 
This use of the spell reasserts your control over up 
to three creatures you hav» snimated with this spell 
rather than animating new ones, 


— 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 7 
spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over 
four Ghouis. If you use a level 8 spell slot, you can 
animate or reassert control over five Ghouls or two 
Ghasts or Wights. If you use a level 9 spell slot, you 
can animate or reassert control over six Ghouls, 
three Ghasts or Wights, or two Mummies. See the 
Monster Manual for these stat blocks. 


CREATION 
Level 5 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a paintbrush) 
Duration: Special 


You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shad- 
owfell to create an object within range. It is either 
an object of vegetable matter (soft goods, rope, 
wood, and the like) or mineral matter (stone, crys- 
tal, metal, and the like). The object must be no 
larger than a 5-foot Cube, and the object must be of 
a form and material that you have seen. 

The spell's duration depends on the object's ma- 
terial, as shown in the Materials table. If the object 
is composed of multiple materials, use the shortest 
duration. Using any object created by this spell as 
another spell's Material component causes the other 
spell to fail. 


MATERIALS 

Material Duration 
Vegetable matter 24 hours 
Stone or crystal 12 hours 
Precious metals 1 hour 
Gems 10 minutes 
Adamantine ог mithral 1 minute 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cube increases 
by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 5. 


CROWN OF MADNESS 
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


One creature that you can see within range must 
succeed on г Wisdom saving throw or have the 
Charmed condition for the duration. The creature 
succeeds automatically if it isn't Humanoid. 

A spectra! crown appears on the Charmed target's 
head, and it must use its action before moving on 


each of its turns to make a melee attack against a 
creature other than itself that you mentally choose. 
The target can act normally on its turn if you 
choose no creature or if no creature is within its 
reach. The target repeats the save at the end of each 
of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a success. 
On your later turns, you must take the Magic ac- 


tion to maintain control of the target, or the spell 
ends. 


CRUSADER’S MANTLE 

Level 3 Evocation (Paladin) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You radiate a magical aura in a 30-foot Emanation. 
While in the aura, you and your allies each deal 

an extra 1d4 Radiant damage when hitting with a 
weapon or an Unarmed Strike. 


CURE WOUNDS 

Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


A creature you touch regains a number of Hit 
Points equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability 
modifier. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in- 
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 1. 


DANCING LIGHTS 

Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus) 
Duration: Concentration, ир to 1 minute 


You create up to four torch-size lights within range, 
making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glow- 
ing orbs that hover for the duration. Alternatively, 
you combine the four lights into one glowing Me- 
dium form that is vaguely humanlike. Whichever 
form you choose, each light sheds Dim Light in a 
10-foot radius. 

As a Bonus Action, you can move the lights up 
to 60 feet to a space within range. A light must be 
within 20 feet of another light created by this spell, 
and a light vanishes if it exceeds the spell's range. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


w^ 


260 


AN ELF CLERIC USES THE SPELL 
DAYLIGHT TO BRING THE LIGHT 


OF DAWN TO A VAMPIRE COURT. “g4 


DARKNESS 
Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, M (bat fur and a piece of coal) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


For the duration, magical Darkness spreads from a 
point within range and fills a 15-foot-radius Sphere. 
Darkvision can't see through it, and nonmagical 
light can't illuminate it. 

Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that 
isn't being worn or carried, causing the Darkness 
to fill a 15-foot Emanation originating from that 
object. Covering that object with something opaque, 
such as a bowl or helm, blocks the Darkness. 

If any of this spell's area overlaps with an area of 
Bright Light or Dim Light created by a spell of level 
2 or lower, that other spell is dispelled. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


DARKVISION 
Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a dried carrot) 
Duration: 8 hours 


For the duration, a willing creature you touch has 
Darkvision with a range of 150 feet. 


DAYLIGHT 
Level 3 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, 
Sorcerer) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 hour 


For the duration, sunlight spreads from a point 
within range and fills a 60-foot-radius Sphere. The 
sunlight's area is Bright Light and sheds Dim Light 
for an additional 60 feet. 


Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that 
isn't being worn or carried, causing the sunlight to 
fill a 60-foot Emanation originating from that ob- 
ject. Covering that object with something opaque, 
such as a bowl or helm, blocks the sunlight. 

If any of this spell's area overlaps with an area of 
Darkness created by a spell of level 5 or lower, that 
other spell is dispelled. 


DEATH WARD 

Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 8 hours 


You touch a creature and grant it a measure of pro- 
tection from death. The first time the target would 
drop to O Hit Points before the spell ends, the target 
instead drops to 1 Hit Point, and the spell ends. 

If the spell is still in effect when the target is sub- 
jected to an effect that would kill it instantly with- 
out dealing damage, that effect is negated against 
the target, and the spell ends. 


DELAYED BLAST FIREBALL 

Level 7 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A beam of yellow light flashes from you, then con- 
denses at a chosen point within range as a glowing 
bead for the duration. When the spell ends, the bead 
explodes, and each creature in a 20-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on that point makes a Dexterity 
saving throw. A creature takes Fire damage equal 
to the total accumulated damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one. 

The spell's base damage is 12d6, and the damage 
increases by 1d6 whenever your turn ends and the 
spell hasn't ended. 

If a creature touches the glowing bead before the 
spell ends, that creature makes a Dexterity saving 
throw. On a failed save, the spell ends, causing the 
bead to explode. On a successful save, the creature 
can throw the bead up to 40 feet. If the thrown 
bead enters a creature's space or collides with a 
solid object, the spell ends, and the bead explodes. 

When the bead explodes, flammable objects in the 
explosion that aren't being worn or carried start 
burning. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The base damage 
increases by 1456 for each spell slot level above 7. 


д 
а 


o_—— 


DEMIPLANE 

Level 8 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: S 

Duration: 1 hour 


You create a shadowy Medium door on a flat solid 
surface that you can see within range. This door 
can be opened and closed, and it leads to a demi- 
plane that is an empty room 20 feet in each dimen- 
sion, made of wood or stone (your choice). 

When the spell ends, the door vanishes, and any 
objects inside the demiplane remain there. Any 
creatures inside also remain unless they opt to be 
shunted through the door as it vanishes, landing 
with the Prone condition in the unoccupied spaces 
closest to the door's former space. 

Each time you cast this spell, you can create a 
new demiplane or connect the shadowy door to 
a demiplane you created with a previous casting 
of this spell. Additionally, if you know the nature 
and contents of a demiplane created by a casting of 
this spell by another creature, you can connect the 
shadowy door to that demiplane instead. 


DESTRUCTIVE WAVE 
Level 5 Evocation (Paladin) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Destructive energy ripples outward from you in a 
30-foot Emanation. Each creature you choose in 

the Emanation makes a Constitution saving throw. 
On a failed save, a target takes 5d6 Thunder damage 
and 5d6 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your choice) 
and has the Prone condition. On a successful save, a 
target takes half as much damage only. 


DETECT EVIL AND Соор 
Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Paladin) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


For the duration, you sense the location of any Ab- 
erration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, or Undead 
within 30 feet of yourself. You also sense whether 
the Hallow spell is active there and, if so, where. 

The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


pe 


ppm Hauts cem 


DETECT MAGIC | | 
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, 


Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 

For the duration, you sense the presence of magical 

effects within 30 feet of yourself. If you sense such 

effects, you can take the Magic action to see a faint 

aura around any visible creature or object in the 

area that bears the magic, and if an effect was cre- 

ated by a spell, you learn the spell's school of magic. 
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 

wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead. 


DETECT POISON AND DISEASE 

Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger) 

Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a yew leaf) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 

For the duration, you sense the location of poisons, 

poisonous or venomous creatures, and magical 

contagions within 30 feet of yourself. You sense the 

kind of poison, creature, or contagion in each case. 
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 

wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead. 


DETECT THOUGHTS 
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (1 Copper Piece) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You activate one of the effects below. Until the spell 
ends, you can activate either effect as a Magic ac- 
tion on your later turns. 

Sense Thoughts. You sense the presence of 
thoughts within 30 feet of yourself that belong to 
creatures that know languages or are telepathic. 
You don't read the thoughts, but you know that a 
thinking creature is present. 

The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead. 

Read Thoughts. Target one creature you can see 
within 30 feet of yourself or one creature within 
30 feet of yourself that you detected with the Sense 
Thoughts option. You learn what is most on the tar- 
get’s mind right now. If the target doesn't know any 


5 Tanpuazes ара вті telepathic, you learn nothing. 


tye 


As a Magic action on your next tern, you can try 
to probe deeper into the target's mind. If you probe 
deeper, the target makes a Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failed save, you discern the target's reasoning 
emotions, and something that looms large in its j 
mind (such as a worry, love, or hate). On a success- 
ful save, the spell ends. Either way, the target knows 
that you are probing into its mind, and until you 
shift your attention away from the target's mind 
the target can take an action on its turn to makean 
Intelligence (Arcana) check against your spell save 
DC, ending the spell on a success. 


DIMENSION DOOR 

Level 4 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 500 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You teleport to a location within range. You arrive 
at exactly the spot desired. It can be a place you can 
see, one you can visualize, or one you can describe 
by stating distance and direction, such as “200 feet 
straight downward” or “300 feet upward to the 
northwest at a 45-degree angle.” 

You can also teleport one willing creature. The 
creature must be within 5 feet of you when you 
teleport, and it teleports to a space within 5 feet of 
your destination space. 

If you, the other creature, or both would arrive in 
a space occupied by a creature or completely filled 
by one or more objects, you and any creature trav- 
eling with you each take 4d6 Force damage, and the 
teleportation fails. 


DISGUISE SELF 
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 hour 


You make yourself—including your clothing, armor, 
weapons, and other belongings on your person— 
look different until the spell ends. You can seem 
1 foot shorter or taller and can appear heavier or 
lighter. You must adopt a form that has the same 
basic arrangement of limbs as you have. Otherwise, 
the extent of the illusion is up to you. 

The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold 
up to physical inspection. For example, if you use 
this spell to add a hat to your outfit, objects pass 
through the hat, and anyone who touches it would 
feel nothing. 


To discern that you are disguised, a creature must 
take the Study action to inspect your appearance 
and succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check 
against your spell save DC. 


DISINTEGRATE 
Level 6 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and dust) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You launch a green ray at a target you can see 
within range. The target can be a creature, a non- 
magical object, or a creation of magical force, such 
as the wall created by Wall of Force. 

A creature targeted by this spell makes a Dexter- 
ity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 
10d6 + 40 Force damage. If this damage reduces it 
to О Hit Points, it and everything nonmagical it is 
wearing and carrying are disintegrated into gray 
dust. The target can be revived only by a True Resur- 
rection or a Wish spell. 

This spell automatically disintegrates a Large or 
smaller nonmagical object or a creation of magical 
force. If such » target is Huge or larger, this spell 
disintegrates г i0-foot-Cube portion of it. 

Using a Hig’ -Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 3:':: ‘or each spell slot level above 6. 


A TIEFLING Cleric casts Disper Evit ANO 
GOOO то EXPEL AN EVIL SPIRIT FROM A 


POSSESSED INNOCENT 


DISPEL EVIL AND GOOD 

Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (powdered silver and iron) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


For the duration, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, 
and Undead have Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against you. You can end the spell early by using ei- 
ther of the following special functions. 

Break Enchantment. As a Magic action, you touch 
a creature that is possessed by or has the Charmed 
or Frightened condition from one or more creatures 
of the types above. The target is no longer pos- 
sessed, Charmed, or Frightened by such creatures. 

Dismissal. As a Magic action, you target one crea- 
ture you can see within 5 feet of you that has one of 
the creature types above. The target must succeed 
on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its 
home plane if it isn't there already. If they aren't on 
their home plane, Undead are sent to the Shadow- 
fell, and Fey are sent to the Feywild. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


4 263 


- —— 


264 


A owARF PALADIN EMPOWERS HER WEAPON WITH DIVINE SMITE, 
UNLEASHING HOLY WRATH ON FIENDISH MEZZOLOTHS 


DISPEL MAGIC 
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, 
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Choose one creature, object, or magical effect 
within range. Any ongoing spell of level 3 or lower 
on the target ends. For each ongoing spell of level 4 
or higher on the target, make an ability check us- 
ing your spellcasting ability (DC 10 plus that spell's 
level). On a successful check, the spell ends. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You automatically 
end a spell on the target if the spell's level is equal to 
or less than the level of the spell slot you use. 


DISSONANT WHISPERS 
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


One creature of your choice that you can see within 
range hears a discordant melody in its mind, The 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed 
save, it takes 3d6 Psychic damage and must imme- 
diately use its Reaction, if available, to move as far 
away from you as it can, using the safest route. On a 
successful save, the target takes half as much dam- 
age only. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


DIVINATION 

Level 4 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (incense worth 25+ GP, which 
the spell consumes) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


This spell puts you in contact with a god or a god's 
servants. You ask one question about a specific 
goal, event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The 
DM offers a truthful reply, which might be a short 
phrase or cryptic rhyme. The spell doesn't account 
for circumstances that might change the answer, 
such as the casting of other spelis. 

If you cast the spell mor : once before finish- 
ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent 
chance for each casting after the first that you get 
no answer. 


DIVINE FAVOR 

Level 1 Transmutation (Paladin) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: Self 

Components: V, 5 

Duration: 1 minute 


Until the spell ends, your attacks with weapons deal 
an extra 144 Radiant damage on a hit. 


DIVINE SMITE 
Level 1 Evocation (Paladin) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 

Range: Self 

Component: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


The target takes an extra 2d8 Radiant damage from 
the attack. The damage increases by 1d8 if the tar- 
get is a Fiend or an Undead. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1. 


DIVINE WORD 
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You utter a word imbued with power from the Up- 
per Planes. Each creature of your choice in range 
makes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, 
a target that has 50 Hit Points or fewer suffers an 
effect based on its current Hit Points, as shown in 
the Divine Word Effects table. Regardless of its Hit 
Points, a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey, or a Fiend 
target that fails its save is forced back to its plane of 
origin (if it isn't there already) and can't return to 
the current plane for 24 hours by any means short 
of a Wish spell. 


Divine WORD EFFECTS 
Hit Points Effect 


0-20 Тһе target dies. 

21-30 The target has the Blinded, Deafened, 
and Stunned conditions for 1 hour. 

31-40 The target has the Blinded and Deaf- 
ened conditions for 10 minutes. 

41-50 Тһе target has the Deafened condition 


for ] minute. 


DOMINATE BEAST 

Level 4 Enchantment (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


One Beast you can see within range must succeed 
on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed 
condition for the duration. The target has Advan- 
tage on the save if you or your allies are fighting it. 
Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the 
save, ending the spell on itself on a success. 

You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar- 
get while the two of you are on the same plane of 
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to 
issue commands to the target (no action required), 
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over there,” 
or “Fetch that object.” The target does its best to 
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't 
receive further direction from you, it acts and 
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself. 

You can command the target to take a Reaction 
but must take your own Reaction to do so. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra- 
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 5 (up to 
10 minutes), 6 (up to 1 hour), or 7+ (up to 8 hours). 


DOMINATE MONSTER 

Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


One creature you can see within range must 
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the 
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has 
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight- 
ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats 
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success. 

You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar- 
get while the two of you are on the same plane of 
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to 
issue commands to the target (no action required), 
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over there,” 
or “Fetch that object.” The target does its best to 
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't 
receive further direction from you, it acts and 
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself. 

You can command the target to take a Reaction 
but must take your own Reaction to do so. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra- 
tion can last longer with a level 9 spell slot (up to 8 
hours). 


drap NIE CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


266 


DOMINATE PERSON | 
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S | 

Duration: Concentration, up to ] minute 

One Humanoid you can see within range must 


succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the 
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has 
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight- 
ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats 
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success. 

You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar- 
get while the two of you are on the same plane of 
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to 
issue commands to the target (no action required), 
such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there," 
or "Fetch that object." The target does its best to 
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't 
receive further direction from you, it acts and 
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself. 

You can command the target to take a Reaction 
but must take your own Reaction to do so. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra- 
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 6 (up to 
10 minutes), 7 (up to 1 hour), or 8* (up to 8 hours). 


DRAGON’S BREATH 
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a hot pepper) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

You touch one willing creature, and choose Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Poison. Until the spell 

ends, the target can take a Magic action to exhale 

a 15-foot Cone. Each creature in that area makes а 
Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 damage of the 
chosen type on a failed save or half as much damage 


on a successful one. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2. 


DRAWMIJ'S INSTANT SUMMONS 
Level 6 Conjuration (Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (a sapphire worth 1,000+ GP) 


Duration: Until dispelled 


You touch the sapphire used in the casting and an 
object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest di- 
mension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an Invisible 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


mark on that object and invisibly inex :i:es the ob- 
ject's name on the sapphire. Each tim you cast this 
spell, you must use a different sapphire., 

Thereafter, you can take a Magic action to speak 
the object's name and crush the sapphire. The ob- 
ject instantly appears in your hand regardless of 
physical or planar distances, and the spell ends. 

If another creature is holding or carrying the ob- 
ject, crushing the sapphire doesn't transport it, but 
instead you learn who that creature is and where 


that creature is currently located. 


DREAM 
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Special 

Components: V, S, M (a handful of sand) 
Duration: 8 hours 


You target a creature you know on the same plane 
of existence. You or a willing creature you touch 
enters a trance state to act as a dream messenger. 
While in the trance, the messenger is Incapacitated 
and has a Speed of O. 

If the target is asleep, the messenger appears in 
the target's dreams and can converse with the tar- 
get as long as it remains asleep, through the spell's 
duration. The messenger can also shape the dream's 
environment, creating landscapes, objects, and 
other images. The messenger can emerge from the 
trance at any time, ending the spell. The target re- 
calls the dream perfectly upon waking. 

If the target is awake when you cast the spell, the 
messenger knows it and can either end the trance 
(and the spell) or wait for the target to sleep, at 
which point the messenger enters its dreams. 

You can make the messenger terrifying to the tar- 
get. If you do so, the messenger can deliver a mes- 
sage of no more than ten words, and then the target 
makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the 
target gains no benefit from its rest, and it takes 3d6 


Psychic damage when it wakes up. 


DRUIDCRAFT 
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Whispering to the spirits of nature, you create one 
of the following effects within range. 

Weather Sensor. You create a Tiny, harmless sen- 
sory effect that predicts what the weather will be 
at your location for the nex: 24 hours. The effect 
might manifest as а 50:0: ovh for clear skies, a 


A SPRITE CASTS 
DRUIOCRAFT TO 
MAKE FLOWERS 


BLOSSOM, 


cloud for rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so 
on. This effect persists for 1 round. 

Bloom. You instantly make a flower blossom, a 
seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom. 

Sensory Effect. You create a harmless sensory ef- 
fect, such as falling leaves, spectral dancing fairies, 
a gentle breeze, the sound of an animal, or the faint 
odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot Cube. 

Fire Play. You light or snuff out a candle, a torch, 
or a campfire. 


EARTHQUAKE 
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 500 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a fractured rock) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Choose a point on the ground that you can see 
within range. For the duration, an intense tremor 
rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle 
centered on that point. The ground there is Difficult 
Terrain. 

When you cast this spell and at the end of each of 
your turns for the duration, each creature on the 
ground in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw. 
On a failed save, a creature has the Prone condition, 
and its Concentration is broken. 

You can also cause the effects below. 

Fissures. A total of 1d6 fissures open in the spell's 
area at the end of the turn you cast it. You choose 
the fissures' locations, which can't be under struc- 
tures. Each fissure is 1410 х 10 feet deep and 10 feet 
wide, and it extends from one edge of the spell's 
area to another edge. A creature in the same space 
as a fissure must succeed on a Dexterity saving 
throw or fal! in. A creature that successfully saves 
moves with the fissure's edge as it opens. 

Structures. The tremor deals 50 Bludgeoning 
damage to азу structure in contact with the ground 
in the area when you cast the spell and at the end of 
each of your *urns until the spell ends. If a structure 
drops to © Hi: Points, it collapses. 


A creature within a distance from a collapsing 
Structure equal to half the structure's height makes 
a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the crea- 
ture takes 12d6 Bludgeoning damage, has the Prone 
condition, and is buried in the rubble, requiring a 
DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to 
escape. On a successful save, the creature takes half 
as much damage only. 


ELDRITCH BLAST 
Evocation Cantrip (Warlock) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You hurl a beam of crackling energy. Make a ranged 
spell attack against one creature or object in range. 
On a hit, the target takes 1410 Force damage. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The spell creates two beams at 
level 5, three beams at level 11, and four beams at 
level 17. You can direct the beams at the same target 
or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for 
each beam. 


ELEMENTALISM 

Transmutation Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You exert control over the elements, creating one of 
the following effects within range. 

Beckon Air. You create a breeze strong enough to 
ripple cloth, stir dust, rustle leaves, and close open 
doors and shutters, all in a 5-foot Cube. Doors and 
shutters being held open by someone or something 
aren't affected. 

Beckon Earth. You create a thin shroud of dust or 
sand that covers surfaces in a 5-foot-square area, or 
you cause a single word to appear in your handwrit- 
ing in a patch of dirt or sand. 

Beckon Fire. You create a thin cloud of harmless 
embers and colored, scented smoke in a 5-foot Cube. 
You choose the color and scent, and the embers can 
light candles, torches, or lamps in that area. The 
smoke's scent lingers for 1 minute. 

Beckon Water. You create a spray of cool mist that 
lightly dampens creatures and objects in a 5-foot 
Cube. Alternatively, you create 1 cup of clean water 
either in an open container or on a surface, and the 
water evaporates in 1 minute. 

Sculpt Element. You cause dirt, sand, fire, smoke, 
mist, or water that can fit in a 1-foot Cube to assume 
a crude shape (such as that of a creature) for 1 hour. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS { 267 


268 


ELEMENTAL WEAPON 
Level 3 Transmutation (Druid, Paladin, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 

A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic 
weapon. Choose one of the following damage types: 
Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. For the du- 
ration, the weapon has a +1 bonus to attack rolls and 
deals an extra 1d4 damage of the chosen type when 
it hits. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 
5-6 spell slot, the bonus to attack rolls increases to 
+2, and the extra damage increases to 2d4. If you 
use a level 7+ spell slot, the bonus increases to +3, 
and the extra damage increases to 304. 


ENHANCE ABILITY 
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger, 


Sorcerer, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (fur or a feather) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You touch a creature and choose Strength, Dex- 
terity, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. For the 
duration, the target has Advantage on ability checks 


using the chosen ability. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2. 
You can choose a different ability for each target. 


ENLARGE/REDUCE 
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


For the duration, the spell enlarges or reduces a 
creature or an object you can see within range (see 
the chosen effect below). A targeted object must 
be neither worn nor carried. If the target is an un- 
willing creature, it can make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a successful save, the spell has no effect. 
Everything that a targeted creature is wearing 
and carrying changes size with it. Any item it drops 
returns to normal size at once. A thrown weapon or 
piece of ammunition returns to normal size imme- 
diately after it hits or misses a target. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


Enlarge. The target's size increases by one cat- 
egory—from Medium to Large, for example. The 
target also has Advantage on Strength checks and 
Strength saving throws. The targets attacks with 
its enlarged weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal an 
extra 144 damage on a hit. 

Reduce. The target's size decreases by one cate- 
gory—from Medium to Small, for example. The tar- 
get also has Disadvantage on Strength checks and 
Strength saving throws. The target's attacks with 
its reduced weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal 1d4 
less damage on a hit (this can’t reduce the damage 


below 1). 


ENSNARING STRIKE 

Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a creature with a weapon 

Range: Self 


Components: V 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


As you hit the target, grasping vines appear on it, 
and it makes a Strength saving throw. A Large or 
larger creature has Advantage on this save. Ona 
failed save, the target has the Restrained condition 
until the spell ends. On a successful save, the vines 
shrivel away, and the spell ends. 

While Restrained, the target takes 1d6 Piercing 
damage at the start of each of its turns. The target 
or a creature within reach of it can take an action to 
make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell 
save DC. On a success, the spell ends. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


ENTANGLE 
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Grasping plants sprout from the ground in a 20-foot 
square within range. For the duration, these plants 
turn the ground in the area into Difficult Terrain. 
They disappear when the spell ends. 

Each creature (other than you) in the area when 
you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength sav- 
ing throw or have the Restrained condition until the 
spell ends. A Restrained creature can take an action 
to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your 
spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself from the 
grasping plants and is no longer Restrained by them. 


uf N 


ENTHRALL 
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, 5 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You weave a distracting string of words, causing 
creatures of your choice that you can see within 
range to make a Wisdom saving throw. Any crea- 
ture you or your companions are fighting automati- 
cally succeeds on this save. On a failed save, a target 
has a -10 penalty to Wisdom (Perception) checks 
and Passive Perception until the spell ends. 


ETHEREALNESS 


Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Up to 8 hours 


You step into the border regions of the Ethereal 
Plane, where it overlaps with your current plane. 


A ORAGONBORN Dauiod uses ENTANGLE 
TO STOP RAMPAGING GNOLLS 


A 
You remain in the Border Ethereal for the duration. 
During this time, you can move in any direction. If 
you move up or down, every foot of movement costs 
an extra foot. You can perceive the plane you left, 
which looks gray, and you can't see anything there 
more than 60 feet away. 

While on the Ethereal Plane, you can affect and 
be affected only by creatures, objects, and effects 
on that plane. Creatures that aren't on the Ethereal 
Plane can't perceive or interact with you unless a 
feature gives them the ability to do so. 

When the spell ends, you return to the plane you 
left in the spot that corresponds to your space in the 
Border Ethereal. If you appear in an occupied space, 
you are shunted to the nearest unoccupied space 
and take Force damage equal to twice the number 
of feet you are moved. 

This spell ends instantly if you cast it while you 
are on the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesn't 
border it, such as one of the Outer Planes. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target up 
to three willing creatures (including yourself) for 
each spell slot level above 7. The creatures must be 
within 10 feet of you when you cast the spell. 


CHAPTER7|SPELLS / 269 - 


emna no 


ER LITT ee YE Seem 242 


» 


THe WizARO Evaro CALLS ON HIS INFAMOUS SPELUJ 
Evano's BLAck TENTACLES, TO TEACH RECKLESS 


BANDITS A LESSON. 


EVARD’S BLACK TENTACLES 

Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a tentacle) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on 
ground that you can see within range. For the du- 
ration, these tentacles turn the ground in that area 
into Difficult Terrain. 

Each creature in that area makes a Strength sav- 
ing throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 Bludgeon- 
ing damage, and it has the Restrained condition 
until the spell ends. A creature also makes that save 
if it enters the area or ends it turn there. A creature 
makes that save only once per turn. 

A Restrained creature can take an action to make 
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save 
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success. 


EXPEDITIOUS RETREAT 
Level 1 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You take the Dash action, and until the spell ends, 
you can take that action again as a Bonus Action. 


EYEBITE 
Level 6 Necromancy (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


For the duration, your eyes become an inky void. 
One creature of your choice within 60 feet of you 
that you can see must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or be affected by one of the following effects 
of your choice for the duration. 

On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can 
take a Magic action to target another creature but 
can't target a creature again if it has succeeded on a 
save against this casting of the spell. 

Asleep. The target has the Unconscious condition. 
It wakes up if it takes any damage or if another 
creature takes an action to shake it awake. 

Panicked. The target has the Frightened condition. 
On each of its turns, the Frightened target must 
take the Dash action and move away from you by 
the safest and shortest route available. If the target 
moves to a space at least 60 feet away from you 
where it can't see you, this effect ends. 

Sickened. The target has the Poisoned condition. 


FABRICATE 
Level 4 Transmutation (Wizard) 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: У, 5 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You convert raw materials into products of the 
same material. For example, you can fabricate a 
wooden bridge from a clump of trees, a rope from a 
patch of hemp, or clothes from flax or wool. 

Choose raw materials that you can see within 
range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object 
(contained within a 10-foot Cube or eight connected 
5-foot Cubes) given a sufficient quantity of mate- 
rial. If you're working with metal, stone, or another 
mineral substance, however, the fabricated object 
can be no larger than Medium (contained within a 
5-foot Cube). The quality of any fabricated objects is 
based on the quality of the raw materials. 

Creatures and magic items can't be created by 
this spell. You also can't use it to create items that 
require a high degree of skill—such as weapons and 
armor—unless you have proficiency with the type of 
Artisan's Tools used to craft such objects. 


FAERIE FIRE 
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Objects in a 20-foot Cube within range are out- 
lined in blue, green, or violet light (your choice). 
Each creature in the Cube is also outlined if it fails 
a Dexterity saving throw. For the duration, objects 
and affected creatures shed Dim Light in a 10-foot 
radius and can't benefit from the Invisible condition. 

Attack rolls against an affected creature or object 
have Advantage if the attacker can see it. 


FALSE LIFE 
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of alcohol) 
Duration: instantaneous 


You gain 244 + 4 Temporary Hit Points. 

Using a fiizher-Level Spell Slot. You gain 5 addi- 
tional Tem»»rary Hit Points for each spell slot level 
above 1. 


FEAR 

Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a white feather) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Each creature in a 30-foot Cone must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding 
and have the Frightened condition for the duration. 
A Frightened creature takes the Dash action and 
moves away from you by the safest route on each 
of its turns unless there is nowhere to move. If the 
creature ends its turn in a space where it doesn't 
have line of sight to you, the creature makes a Wis- 
dom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell 
ends on that creature. 


FEATHER FALL 
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you or a 


creature you can see within 60 feet of you falls 
Range: 60 feet 


Components: V, M (a small feather or piece of down) 
Duration: 1 minute 


Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A 
falling creature's rate of descent slows to 60 feet per 
round until the spell ends. If a creature lands before 
the spell ends, the creature takes no damage from 
the fall, and the spell ends for that creature. 


FEIGN DEATH 

Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of graveyard dirt) 
Duration: 1 hour 


You touch a willing creature and put it into a cata- 
leptic state that is indistinguishable from death. 

For the duration, the target appears dead to out- 
ward inspection and to spells used to determine the 
target's status. The target has the Blinded and Inca- 
pacitated conditions, and its Speed is O. 

The target also has Resistance to all damage ex- 
cept Psychic damage, and it has Immunity to the 
Poisoned condition. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


2"I 


| LUN 


Spirits SUMMONED BY FIND FAMILIAR 
TAKE FORMS INSPIRED BY THE MAGES 


WHO CONJURE THEM. 


FIND FAMILIAR 
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard) 
Casting Time: 1 hour or Ritual 


Range: 10 feet 
Components: V, S, M (burning incense worth 10+ GP, 


which the spell consumes) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes 
an animal form you choose: Bat, Cat, Frog, Hawk, 
Lizard, Octopus, Owl, Rat, Raven, Spider, Weasel, 
or another Beast that has a Challenge Rating of 0. 
Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the 
familiar has the statistics of the chosen form (see 
appendix B), though it is a Celestial, Fey, or Fiend 
(your choice) instead of a Beast. Your familiar acts 
independently of you, but it obeys your commands. 

Telepathic Connection. While your familiar is 
within 100 feet of you, you can communicate with 
it telepathically. Additionally, as a Bonus Action, 
you can see through the familiar’s eyes and hear 
what it hears until the start of your next turn, gain- 
ing the benefits of any special senses it has. 

Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of 
touch, your familiar can deliver the touch. Your 
familiar must be within 100 feet of you, and it must 
take a Reaction to deliver the touch when you cast 
the spell. 

Combat. The familiar is an ally to you and your 
allies. It rolls its own Initiative and acts on its own 
turn. A familiar can't attack, but it can take other 


actions as normal. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


Disappearance of the Familiar. When the familiar 
drops to O Hit Points, it disappears. It reappears 
after you cast this spell again. As a Magic action, 
you can temporarily dismiss the familiar to a pocket 
dimension. Alternatively, you can dismiss it forever. 
As a Magic action while it is temporarily dismissed, 
you can cause it to reappear in an unoccupied Space 
within 30 feet of you. Whenever the familiar drops 
to О Hit Points or disappears into the pocket dimen- 
sion, it leaves behind in its space anything it was 
wearing or carrying. 

One Familiar Only. You can't have more than one 
familiar at a time. If you cast this spell while you 
have a familiar, you instead cause it to adopt a new 
eligible form. 


FIND STEED 
Level 2 Conjuration (Paladin) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Component: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You summon an otherworldly being that appears as 
a loyal steed in an unoccupied space of your choice 
within range. This creature uses the Otherworldly 
Steed stat block. If you already have a steed from 
this spell, the steed is replaced by the new one. 

The steed resembles a Large, rideable animal of 
your choice, such as a horse, a camel, a dire wolf, 
or an elk. Whenever you cast the spell, choose the 
steed's creature type—Celestial, Fey, or Fiend— 
which determines certain traits in the stat block. 


pM 


—— 


„== 


AC 10 + 1 per spell level 

HP 5 + 10 per spell level (the steed has a number of Hit 
Dice [d10s] equal to the spell's level) 

Speed 60 ft., Fly 60 ft. (requires level 4+ spell) 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
str 18 +4 +4  DEX 12 +1 +1 Сом14 +2 +2 
INT 6 -2 -2 Wis 12 +1 +1 Сна 8 E zu 


Senses Passive Perception 11 
Languages Telepathy 1 mile (works only with you) 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


TRAITS 


Life Bond. When you regain Hit Points from a level 1« 
spell, the steed regains the same number of Hit Points 
if you're within 5 feet of it. 


ACTIONS 


Otherworldly Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals 
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 plus the 
spell's level of Radiant (Celestial), Psychic (Fey), or Ne- 
crotic (Fiend) damage. 


BoNUS ACTIONS 


Fell Glare (Fiend Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). 
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, 
one creature within 60 feet the steed can see. Failure: 
The target has the Frightened condition until the end of 
your next turn. 


Fey Step (Fey Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). The 
steed teleports, along with its rider, to an unoccupied 
space of your choice up to 60 feet away from itself. 


Healing Touch (Celestial Only; Recharges after a Long 

Rest). One creature within 5 feet of the steed regains a 

number of Hit Points equal to 2d8 plus the spell's level. 
4 


Combat. The steed is an ally to you and your al- 
lies. In combat, it shares your Initiative count, and 
it functions as a controlled mount while you ride it 
(as defined in the rules on mounted combat). If you 
have the Incapacitated condition, the steed takes 
its turn immediately after yours and acts inde- 
pendently, focusing on protecting you. 

Disappearance of the Steed. The steed disappears 
if it drops to O Hit Points or if you die. When it dis- 
appears, it leaves behind anything it was wearing 
or carrying. If you cast this spell again, you decide 
whether you summon the steed that disappeared or 
a different one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell’s level in the stat block. 


Р 


FIND THE PATH 

Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid) 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a set of divination tools—such 
as cards or runes—worth 100+ GP) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day 


You magically sense the most direct physical route 
to a location you name. You must be familiar with 
the location, and the spell fails if you name a desti- 
nation on another plane of existence, a moving des- 
tination (such as a mobile fortress), or an unspecific 
destination (such as "a green dragon's lair"). 

For the duration, as long as you are on the same 
plane of existence as the destination, you know 
how far it is and in what direction it lies. Whenever 
you face a choice of paths along the way there, you 
know which path is the most direct. 


FIND TRAPS 

Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You sense any trap within range that is within line 
of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this spell, in- 
cludes any object or mechanism that was created 
to cause damage or other danger. Thus, the spell 
would sense the Alarm or Glyph of Warding spell or a 
mechanical pit trap, but it wouldn't reveal a natural 
weakness in the floor, an unstable ceiling, or a hid- 
den sinkhole. 

This spell reveals that a trap is present but not 
its location. You do learn the general nature of the 
danger posed by a trap you sense. 


FINGER OF DEATH 
Level 7 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You unleash negative energy toward a creature you 
can see within range. The target makes a Constitu- 
tion saving throw, taking 7d8 + 30 Necrotic damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc- 
cessful one. 

A Humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start 
of your next turn as a Zombie (see appendix B) that 
follows your verbal orders. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


| 275 


E 
О ша + aereo s Borg ee 
м i AN 


FIREBALL 
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: 150 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur) 


Duration: Instantaneous 


A bright streak flashes from you to a point you 
choose within range and then blossoms with a 
low roar into a fiery explosion. Each creature in a 
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on that point makes 
a Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 Fire damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc- 
cessful one. 

Flammable objects in the area that aren't being 

E worn or carried start burning. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 

creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3. 


Fire BOLT 
| Еуосайоп Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components; V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or an object 
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the 


target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 Fire damage. 
A flammable object hit by this spell starts burning if 
it isn't being worn or carried. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d10 
when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17 


(4d10). 


FIRE SHIELD 
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus or a firefly) 
Duration: 10 minutes 


Wispy flames wreathe your body for the duration, 
shedding Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim 
Light for an additional 10 feet. 

The flames provide you with a warm shield or a 
chill shield, as you choose. The warm shield grants 
you Resistance to Cold damage, and the chill shield 
grants you Resistance to Fire damage. 

In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet 
of you hits you with a melee attack roll, the shield 
erupts with flame. The attacker takes 2d8 Fire dam- 
age from a warm shield or 2d8 Cold damage from a 
chill shield. 


ae 
FIRE STORM 

Level 7 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


A storm of fire appears within range. The area of 
the storm consists of up to ten 10-foot Cubes, which 
you arrange as you like. Each Cube must be contig- 
uous with at least one other Cube. Each creature 
in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 
7d10 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 

Flammable objects in the area that aren't being 
worn or carried start burning. 


FLAME BLADE 

Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a sumac leaf) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade 
is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts 
for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disap- 
pears, but you can evoke it again as a Bonus Action. 

As a Magic action, you can make a melee spell at- 
tack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes 
Fire damage equal to 3d6 plus your spellcasting 
ability modifier. 

The flaming blade sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2. 


FLAME STRIKE 
Level 5 Evocation (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


A vertical column of brilliant fire roars down from 
above. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot- 
high Cylinder centered on a point within range 
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d6 Fire 
damage and 5d6 Radiant damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Fire damage 
and the Radiant damage increase by 146 for each 
spell slot level above 5. 


oo. 


FLAMING SPHERE 
Level 2 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a ball of wax) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You create a 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire in an un- 
occupied space on the ground within range. It lasts 
for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn 
within 5 feet of the sphere makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 2d6 Fire damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one. 

As a Bonus Action, you can move the sphere up to 
30 feet, rolling it along the ground. If you move the 
sphere into a creature's space, that creature makes 
the save against the sphere, and the sphere stops 
moving for the turn. 


When you move the sphere, you can direct it over 
barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up 
to 10 feet wide. Flammable objects that aren't being 
worn or carried start burning if touched by the 
sphere, and it sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius 
and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2. 


FLESH TO STONE 

Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a cockatrice feather) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You attempt to turn one creature that you can see 
within range into stone. The target makes a Consti- 
tution saving throw. On a failed save, it has the Re- 
strained condition for the duration. On a successful 
save, its Speed is O until the start of your next turn. 
Constructs automatically succeed on the save. 

A Restrained target makes another Constitution 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it 
successfully saves against this spell three times, the 
spell ends. If it fails its saves three times, it is turned 
to stone and has the Petrified condition for the 
duration. The successes and failures needn't be con- 
secutive; keep track of both until the target collects 
three of a kind. 

If you maintain your Concentration on this spell 
for the entire possible duration, the target is Pet- 
rified until the condition is ended by Greater Resto- 
ration or similar magic. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


275 


FLY 
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a feather) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the 
target gains a Fly Speed of 60 feet and can hover. 
When the spell ends, the target falls if it is still aloft 
unless it can stop the fall. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 3. 


Foc CLOUD 
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of fog centered 
on a point within range. The Sphere is Heavily 
Obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a strong 
wind (such as one created by Gust of Wind) dis- 
perses it. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The fog's radius 
increases by 20 feet for each spell slot level above 1. 


FORBIDDANCE 
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric) 
Casting Time: 10 minutes or Ritual 


T Range: Touch 
5 Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,000+ GP) 


Duration: 1 day 


e You create a ward against magical travel that pro- 
n. tects up to 40,000 square feet of floor space to a 
ў height of 30 feet above the floor. For the duration, 
m creatures can't teleport into the area or use portals, 
: such as those created by the Gate spell, to enter the 
area. The spell proofs the area against planar travel, 
and therefore prevents creatures from accessing the 
area by way of the Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane, 
the Feywild, the Shadowfell, or the Plane Shift spell. 

In addition, the spell damages types of creatures 
_ that you choose when you cast it. Choose one or 
nore of the following: Aberrations, Celestials, Ele- 

y, Fiends, and Undead. When a creature 

e entel the spell's area for the first 


| ofach 
time o 


Bi aes ОЕМ Advantage on D20 


You can designate a password whe: vou cast the 
spell. A creature that speaks the password as it en- 
ters the area takes no damage from the spell. 

The spell’s area can't overlap with the area of 
another Forbiddance spell. If you cast Forbiddance 
every day for 30 days in the same location, the spell 
lasts until it is dispelled, and the Material compo- 
nents are consumed on the last casting. 


FORCECAGE 
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: 100 feet 
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,5004 GP, 


which the spell consumes) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


An immobile, Invisible, Cube-shaped prison com- 
posed of magical force springs into existence 
around an area you choose within range. The prison 
can be a cage or a solid box, as you choose. 

A prison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20 
feet on a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter 
bars spaced 1/2 inch apart. A prison in the shape 
of a box can be up to 10 feet on a side, creating a 
solid barrier that prevents any matter from passing 
through it and blocking any spells cast into or out 
from the area. 

When you cast the spell, any creature that is com- 
pletely inside the cage's area is trapped. Creatures 
only partially within the area, or those too large to 
fit inside it, are pushed away from the center of the 
area until they are completely outside it. 

A creature inside the cage can't leave it by non- 
magical means. If the creature tries to use teleporta- 
tion or interplanar travel to leave, it must first make 
a Charisma saving throw. On a successful save, the 
creature can use that magic to exit the cage. On a 
failed save, the creature doesn't exit the cage and 
wastes the spell or effect. The cage also extends into 
the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel. 

This spell can't be dispelled by Dispel Magic. 


p 


FORESIGHT 
Level 9 Divination (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a hummingbird feather) 
Duration: 8 hours 


You touch a willing creature and bestow a limited 
ability to see into the immediate future. For the du- х 


ў 


f. ж 


TE 


haaa ii 


FouNT ок MOONLIGHT 

Level 4 Evocation (Bard, Druid) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


A cool light wreathes your body for the duration, 
emitting Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim 
Light for an additional 20 feet. 

Until the spell ends, you have Resistance to Radi- 
ant damage, and your melee attacks deal an extra 
2d6 Radiant damage on a hit. 

In addition, immediately after you take damage 
from a creature you can see within 60 feet of your- 
self, you can take a Reaction to force the creature to 
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, 
the creature has the Blinded condition until the end 
of your next turn. 


FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT 

Level 4 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a leather strap) 
Duration: 1 hour 


You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the 
target's movement is unaffected by Difficult Terrain, 
and spells and other magical effects can neither re- 
duce the target's Speed nor cause the target to have 
the Paralyzed or Restrained conditions. The target 
also has a Swim Speed equal to its Speed. 

In addition, the target can spend 5 feet of move- 
ment to automatically escape from nonmagical 
restraints, such as manacles or a creature imposing 
the Grappled condition on it. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4. 


FRIENDS 
Enchantment Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: S, M (some makeup) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You magically emanate a sense of friendship toward 
one creature you can see within range. The target 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have 
the Charmed condition for the duration. The tar- 
get succeeds automatically if it isn't a Humanoid, if 
you're fighting it, or if you have cast this spell on it 
within the past 24 hours. 


x) 
"дб 


he spell ends early if the target takes damage 
ri f you make an attack roll, deal damage, or force 
anyone to make a saving throw. When the spell 


ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you. 


re 


GASEOUS FORM 

Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of gauze) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


A willing creature you touch shape-shifts, along 
with everything it’s wearing and carrying, into 

a misty cloud for the duration. The spell ends on 
the target if it drops to O Hit Points or if it takes a 
Magic action to end the spell on itself. 

While in this form, the target's only method 
of movement is a Fly Speed of 10 feet, and it can 
hover. The target can enter and occupy the space 
of another creature. The target has Resistance to 
Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage; it has 
Immunity to the Prone condition; and it has Ad- 
vantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution 
saving throws. The target can pass through narrow 
openings, but it treats liquids as though they were 
solid surfaces. 

The target can't talk or manipulate objects, and 
any objects it was carrying or holding can't be 
dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. Fi- 
nally, the target can't attack or cast spells. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 3. 


GATE 

Level 9 Conjuration (Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 5,000+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You conjure a portal linking an unoccupied space 
you can see within range to a precise location on a 
different plane of existence. The portal is a circular 
opening, which you can make 5 to 20 feet in diam- 
eter. You can orient the portal in any direction you 
choose. The portal lasts for the duration, and the 
portal's destination is visible through it. 

The portal has a front and a back on each plane 
where it appears. Travel through the portal is possi- 
ble only by moving through its front. Anything that 
does so is instantly transported to the other plane, 
appearing in the unoccupied space nearest to the _ 


15 


portal. T "t 


e, 


* 


—- 
^ 


М 
x 


Отто тне Bano casts GATE то OPEN A 
PORTAL.TO THE OUTLANDS 


pal ы 
i > саал De < 
1 «7? 7 


"v 


Deities and other planar rulers can prevent por- 
tals created by this spell from opening in their pres- 
ence or anywhere within their domains. 

When you cast this spell, you can speak the name 
of a specific creature (a pseudonym, title, or nick- 
name doesn't work). If that creature is on a plane 
other than the one you are on, the portal opens 
next to the named creature and transports it to the 


nearest unoccupied space on your side of the portal. 


You gain no special power over the creature, and it 
is free to act as the DM deems appropriate. It might 
leave, attack you, or help you. 


GEAS 

Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: 30 days 


You give a verbal command to a creature that you 
can see within range, ordering it to carry out some 
service or refrain from an action or a course of ac- 
tivity as you decide. The target must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condi- 
tion for the duration. The target automatically suc- 
ceeds if it can't understand your command. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


While Charmed, the creature takes 5d10 Psychic E 


damage if it acts in a manner directly counter to 
your command. It takes this damage no more than 


once each day. 
You can issue any command you choose, short 


of an activity that would result in certain death. 
Should you issue a suicidal command, the spell ends, 
A Remove Curse, Greater Restoration, or Wish spell 
ends this spell. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 
7 or 8 spell slot, the duration is 565 days. If you use 
a level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until it is ended by 
one of the spells mentioned above. 


GENTLE REPOSE 
Level 2 Necromancy (Cleric, Paladin, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (2 Copper Pieces, which the 


spell consumes) 
Duration: 10 days 


You touch a corpse or other remains. For the dura- 
tion, the target is protected from decay and can't 
become Undead. 

The spell also effectively extends the time limit on 
raising the target from the dead, since days spent 
under the influence of this spell don't count against 
the time limit of speils 5:ch as Raise Dead. 


GIANT INSECT 
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: У, 5 

Duration: Concentration, ир їо 10 minutes 


You summon a giant centipede, spider, or wasp 
(chosen when you cast the spell). It manifests in an 
unoccupied space you can see within range and uses 
the Giant Insect stat block. The form you choose 
determines certain details in its stat block. The 
creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or 
when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 


| Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 
Languages Understands the languages you know 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


TRAITS 


Spider Climb. The insect can climb difficult surfaces, 
including along ceilings, without needing to make an 
ability check. 


ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The insect makes a number of attacks 
equal to half this spell’s level (round down). 


Poison Jab. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell 
attack modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: 1d6 + 3 plus the spell’s 
level Piercing damage plus 1d4 Poison damage. 


Web Bolt (Spider Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus 
equals your spell attack modifier, range 60 ft. Hit: 1d10 
+ 3 plus the spell's level Bludgeoning damage, and the 
target’s Speed is reduced to 0 until the start of the in- 


F m 
(GIANT INSECT 

Large Beast, Unaligned 

AC 11 + the spell’s level 

HP 30 + 10 for each spell level 

Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (Wasp only) 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 

Str 17 +3 +3 Dex 13 +1 +1 Сом15 +2 +2 

| INT 4 -3 -3 Wis 14 42 42 CHA3 -4 -4 


sect’s next turn. 


BONUS ACTIONS 

Venomous реш (Centipede Only). Constitution Saving 
Throw: Your spell save DC, one creature the insect can 
see within 12 feet. Failure: The target has the Poisoned 
condition unti the start of the insect's next turn. 


obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


GLIBNESS 

Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: 1 hour 


Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma 
check, you can replace the number you roll with a 
15. Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that 
would determine if you are telling the truth indi- 
cates that you are being truthful. 


GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY 
Level 6 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a glass bead) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


An immobile, shimmering barrier appears іп a 10- 
foot Emanation around you and remains for the 
duration. 

Any spell of level 5 or lower cast from outside the 
barrier can't affect anything within it. Such a spell 
can target creatures and objects within the barrier, 
but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the 
area within the barrier is excluded from areas of 
effect created by such spells. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The barrier blocks 
spells of 1 level higher for each spell slot level 
above 6. 


GLYPH OF WARDING 
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth 200+ 
GP, which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Until dispelled or triggered 


You inscribe a glyph that later unleashes a magical 
effect. You inscribe it either on a surface (such as a 
table or a section of floor) or within an object that 
can be closed (such as a book or chest) to conceal 
the glyph. The glyph can cover an area no larger 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


. 9"Q 


і 
{ 
1 
' 


than 10 feet in diameter. If the surface or object is 
moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this 
spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without 


being triggered. І 
The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a 


successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your 


spell save DC to notice. e" 
When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger 


and choose whether it's an explosive rune or a spell 


glyph, as explained below. 
Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the glyph 


when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a 
surface, common triggers include touching or step- 
ping on the glyph, removing another object cover- 
ing it, or approaching within a certain distance of it. 
For glyphs inscribed within an object, common trig- 
gers include opening that object or seeing the glyph. 
Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends. 

You can refine the trigger so that only creatures 
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph 
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set 
conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph, 
such as those who say a certain password. 

Explosive Rune. When triggered, the glyph erupts 
with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on the glyph. Each creature in the area 
makes a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 
5d8 Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder damage 
(your choice when you create the glyph) on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. 

Spell Glyph. You can store a prepared spell of 
level 3 or lower in the glyph by casting it as part of 
creating the glyph. The spell must target a single 
creature or an area. The spell being stored has no 
immediate effect when cast in this way. 

When the glyph is triggered, the stored spell takes 
effect. If the spell has a target, it targets the crea- 
ture that triggered the glyph. If the spell affects an 
area, the area is centered on that creature. If the 
spell summons Hostile creatures or creates harmful 
objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to 
the intruder and attack it. If the spell requires Con- 
centration, it lasts until the end of its full duration. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of an 
explosive rune increases by 1d8 for each spell slot 
level above 3. If you create a spell glyph, you can 
store any spell of up to the same level as the spell 
slot you use for the Glyph of Warding. 


Ж ОМ, 
ELES A i CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


GOODBERRY 
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Self 
Components: V, 5, M (a sprig of mistletoe) 


Duration: 24 hours 

Ten berries appear in your hand and are infused 

with magic for the duration. A creature can take а 

Bonus Action to eat one berry. Eating a berry re- 

stores 1 Hit Point, and the berry provides enough 

nourishment to sustain a creature for one day. 
Uneaten berries disappear when the spell ends. 


GRASPING VINE 

Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

You conjure a vine that sprouts from a surface in 
an unoccupied space that you can see within range. 
The vine lasts for the duration. 

Make a melee spell attack against a creature 
within 30 feet of the vine. On a hit, the target takes 
4d8 Bludgeoning damage and is pulled up to 30 feet 
toward the vine; if the target is Huge or smaller, 
it has the Grappled condition (escape DC equal to 
your spell save DC). The vine can grapple only one 
creature at a time, and you can cause the vine to re- 
lease a Grappled creature (no action required). 

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can 
repeat the attack against a creature within 30 feet 
of the vine. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The number of 
creatures the vine can grapple increases by one for 
each spell slot level above 4. 


GREASE 
Level 1 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of pork rind or butter) 
Duration: 1 minute 


Nonflammable grease covers the ground in a 10-foot 
square centered on a point within range and turns it 
into Difficult Terrain for the duration. 

When the grease appears, each creature stand- 
ing in its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving 
throw or have the Prone condition. A creature that 
enters the area or ends its turn there must also suc- 
ceed on that save ог f21! Prone. 


A HALFLING CLERIC CASTS GUARDIAN OF FAITH TO 
FEND OFF А RAVENOUS NORG. Н Ш 


GREATER ÍNVISIBILITY 
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A creature you touch has the Invisible condition un- 
til the spell ends. 


GREATER RESTORATION 
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP, 
which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch a creature and magically remove one of 
the following effects from it: 


* 1 Exhaustion level 
· The Charmed or Petrified condition 


* A curse, including the target’s Attunement to a 
cursed magic item 

- Any reduction to one of the target's ability scores 

- Any reduction to the target's Hit Point maximum 


GUARDIAN OF FAITH 
Level 4 Conjuration (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: 8 hours 


A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for 
the duration in an unoccupied space that you can 
see within range. The guardian occupies that space 
and is invulnerable, and it appears in a form appro- 
priate for your deity or pantheon. 

Any enemy that moves to a space within 10 feet of 
the guardian for the first time on a turn or starts its 
turn there makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 
20 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. The guardian vanishes 
when it has dealt a total of 60 damage. 


GUARDS AND WARDS 
Level 6 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 1 hour 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (a silver rod worth 10+ GP) 


Duration: 24 hours 

You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square 
feet of floor space. The warded area can be up to 
20 feet tall, and you shape it as one 50-foot square, 
one hundred 5-foot squares that are contiguous, or 
twenty-five 10-foot squares that are contiguous. 

When you cast this spell, you can specify indi- 
viduals that are unaffected by the spell's effects. 
You can also specify a password that, when spoken 
aloud within 5 feet of the warded area, makes the 
speaker immune to its effects. 

The spell creates the effects below within the 
warded area. Dispel Magic has no effect on Guards 
and Wards itself, but each of the following effects 
can be dispelled. If all four are dispelled, Guards and 
Wards ends. If you cast the spell every day for 565 
days on the same area, the spell thereafter lasts un- 
til all its effects are dispelled. 

Corridors. Fog fills all the warded corridors, mak- 
ing them Heavily Obscured. In addition, at each 
intersection or branching passage offering a choice 
of direction, there is a 50 percent chance that a 
creature other than you believes it is going in the 
opposite direction from the one it chooses. 

Doors. All doors in the warded area are magically 
locked, as if sealed by the Arcane Lock spell. In addi- 
tion, you can cover up to ten doors with an illusion 
to make them appear as plain sections of wall. 

Stairs. Webs fill all stairs in the warded area from 
top to bottom, as in the Web spell. These strands 
regrow in 10 minutes if they are destroyed while 
Guards and Wards lasts. 

Other Spell Effect. Place one of the following magi- 
cal effects within the warded area: 


* Dancing Lights in four corridors, with a simple pro- 
gram that the lights repeat as long as Guards and 
Wards lasts 

+ Magic Mouth in two locations 

- Stinking Cloud in two locations (the vapors return 
within 10 minutes if dispersed while Guards and 
Wards lasts) 

* Gust of Wind in one corridor or room (the wind 
blows continuously while the spell lasts) 

* Suggestion in one 5-foot square; any creature 
that enters that square receives the suggestion 
mentally 


CLAPTED 7! CDEIT&R 


GUIDANCE 
Divination Cantrip (Cleric, Druid) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Component: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You touch a willing creature and choose a skill. U 
til the spell ends, the creature adds 1d4 to any “сы 
ity check using the chosen skill. 


GUIDING BOLT 
Level 1 Evocation (Cleric) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 round 


You hurl a bolt of light toward a creature within 
range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target 
On a hit, it takes 4d6 Radiant damage, and the next 
attack roll made against it before the end of your 
next turn has Advantage. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


GusT OF WIND 
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a legume seed) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A Line of strong wind 60 feet long and 10 feet wide 
blasts from you in a direction you choose for the 
duration. Each creature in the Line must succeed on 
a Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away 
from you in a direction following the Line. A crea- 
ture that ends its turn in the Line must make the 
same save. 

Any creature in the Line must spend 2 feet of 
movement for every 1 foot it moves when moving 
closer to you. 

The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extin- 
guishes candles and similar unprotected flames in 
the area. It causes protected flames, such as those 
of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50 percent 
chance to extinguish them. 

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can 
change the direction in which the Line blasts from 


you. 


HAIL OF THORNS 

Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a creature with a Ranged weapon 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


As you hit the creature, this spell creates a rain 
of thorns that sprouts from your Ranged weapon 
or ammunition. The target of the attack and each 
creature within 5 feet of it make a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 1d10 Piercing damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 1. 


HALLOW 

Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric) 

Casting Time: 24 hours 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (incense worth 1,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Until dispelled 


You touch a point and infuse an area around it with 
holy or unholy power. The area can have a radius up 
to 60 feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes 
an area already under the effect of Hallow. The af- 
fected area has the following effects. 

Hallowed Ward. Choose any of these creature 
types: Aberration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, 
or Undead. Creatures of the chosen types can't 
willingly enter the area, and any creature that is 
possessed by or that has the Charmed or Fright- 
ened condition from such creatures isn't possessed, 
Charmed, or Frightened by them while in the area. 

Extra Effect. You bind an extra effect to the area 
from the list below: 


Courage. Creatures of any types you choose can't 
gain the Frightened condition while in the area. 
Darkness. Darkness fills the area. Normal light, as 
well as magical light created by spells of a level 
lower than this spell, can't illuminate the area. 
Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical Dark- 
ness created by spells of a level lower than this 

spell can't extinguish the light. 

Peaceful Rest. Dead bodies interred in the area 
can't be turned into Undead. 

Extradimensional Interference. Creatures of any 
types you choose can't enter or exit the area using 
teleportation or interplanar travel. 

Fear. Creatures of any types you choose have the 
Frightened condition while in the area. 


y. 


p ERE 

Resistance. Creatures of any types you choose have 
Resistance to one damage type of your choice 
while in the area. 


Silence. No sound can emanate from within the 
area, and no sound can reach into it. 

Tongues. Creatures of any types you choose can 
communicate with any other creature in the area 
even if they don't share a common language. 

Vulnerability. Creatures of any types you choose 
have Vulnerability to one damage type of your 
choice while in the area. 


HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN 

Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: 300 feet 


Components: V, S, M (a mushroom) 
Duration: 24 hours 


You make natural terrain in a 150-foot Cube in 
range look, sound, and smell like another sort of 
natural terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be 
made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some 
other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be 
made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like 
a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and 
smooth road. Manufactured structures, equipment, 
and creatures within the area aren't changed. 

The tactile characteristics of the terrain are un- 
changed, so creatures entering the area are likely 
to notice the illusion. If the difference isn't obvious 
by touch, a creature examining the illusion can take 
the Study action to make an Intelligence (Investiga- 
tion) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve 
it. If a creature discerns that the terrain is illusory, 
the creature sees a vague image superimposed on 
the real terrain. 


HARM 
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You unleash virulent magic on a creature you can 
see within range. The target makes a Constitution 
saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 14d6 Ne- 
crotic damage, and its Hit Point maximum is re- 
duced by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage 
it took. On a successful save, it takes half as much 
damage only. This spell can't reduce a target's Hit 
Point maximum below 1. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS P p 


armor, that you can see within range. You cause 
H the object to glow red-hot. Any creature in physical 

ASTE — contact with the object takes 2d8 Fire damage wher 
Level 3 Transmutation (: , you cast the spell. Until the spell ends, you can take 
a Bonus Action on each of your later turns to deal 
this damage again if the object is within range. 

If a creature is holding or wearing the object and 
takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed 
Choose a willing creature that you can see within oma Constitution зау throw or drop the object if 
range. Until the spell ends, the target's Speed is it can. If it doesn't drop the object, it has Disadvan- 
doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to Armor Class, it has tage on attack rolls and ability checks until the start 

of your next turn. 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a shaving of licorice root) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


үүнүү” үөр 


М МАДА у. 


Advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains 

an sdititional action iioi of its turns. That ac- Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 

tion can be used to take only the Attack (one attack creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2. 

only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Utilize action. 

When the spell ends, the target is Incapacitated 

and has a Speed of O until the end of its next turn, HELLISH REBUKE 

Level 1 Evocation (Warlock) | 
1 


as a wave of lethargy washes over it. 
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take in response 


to taking damage from a creature that you can see 
HEAL within 60 feet of yourself 
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid) Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


ee eee ee 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: VS The creature that damaged you is momentarily sur- 
Duration: Instantaneous rounded by green flames. It makes a Dexterity sav- 
ing throw, taking 2d10 Fire damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 1. 


Choose a creature that you can see within range. 
Positive energy washes through the target, restor- 
ing 70 Hit Points. This spell also ends the Blinded, 
Deafened, and Poisoned conditions on the target. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in- 


creases by 10 for each spell slot level above 6. 
HEROES’ FEAST 


Level 6 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid) 


HEALING WORD Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid) Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted bowl worth 
1,0004 GP, which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V 


Duration: Instantaneous А 
You conjure a feast that appears on a surface in 
A creature of your choice that you can see within an unoccupied 10-foot Cube next to you. The feast 
range regains Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus your takes 1 hour to consume and disappears at the end 
spellcasting ability modifier. of that time, and the beneficial effects don't set in 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in- until this hour is over. Up to twelve creatures can 
creases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 1. partake of the feast. 


A creature that partakes gains several benefits, 
which last for 24 hours. The creature has Resis- 


HEAT METAL | | tance to Poison damage, and it has Immunity to the 
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid) Frightened and Poisoned conditions. Its Hit Point 
Casting Time: Action maximum also increases by 2d10, and it gains the 
Range: 60 feet same number of Hit Points. 


Components: V, S, M (a piece of iron and a flame) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a 
metal weapon or a suit of Heavy or Medium metal 


284 CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS А - 


THE SPELL Heroes’ 


ADVENTURERS FOR G 


HEROISM 
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Paladin) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A willing creature you touch is imbued with brav- 
ery. Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to 
the Frightened condition and gains Temporary Hit 
Points equal to your spellcasting ability modifier at 
the start of each of its turns. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. 


HEX 
Level 1 Enchantment (Warlock) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (the petrified eye of a newt) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You place a curse on a creature that you can see 
within range. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra 


146 Necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit 


y UG 
vA 7 


it with an attack roll. Also, choose one ability when 
you cast the spell. The target has Disadvantage on 
ability checks made with the chosen ability. 

If the target drops to O Hit Points before this spell 
ends, you can take a Bonus Action on a later turn to 
curse a new creature. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra- 
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 2 (up to 
4 hours), 3-4 (up to 8 hours), or 5+ (24 hours). 


HOLD MONSTER 

Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Choose a creature that you can see within range. 
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At 
the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the 
save, ending the spell on itself on a success. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 5. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


285 


HOLD PERSON 

Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Choose a Humanoid that you can see within range. 
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At 
the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the 
save, ending the spell on itself on a success. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional Humanoid for each spell slot level 
above 2. 


HOLY AURA 
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a reliquary worth 1,000+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


For the duration, you emit an aura in a 50-foot Em- 
anation. While in the aura, creatures of your choice 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


——— las tÓÁMÁÀ 05 


AN AASIMAR WARLOCK EXPOSES FOES TO THE 
ALL-CONSUMING HUNGER OF lHADAR. 


dL ee Oe 


have Advantage on all saving throws, and other 
creatures have Disadvantage on attack rolls against 
them. In addition, when a Fiend or an Undead hits 
an affected creature with a melee attack roll, the at- 
tacker must succeed on a Constitution saving throw 
or have the Blinded condition until the end of its 
next turn. 


HUNGER OF HADAR 
Level 3 Conjuration (Warlock) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a pickled tentacle) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You open a gateway to the Far Realm, a region in- 
fested with unspeakable horrors. A 20-foot-radius 
Sphere of Darkness appears, centered on a point 
with range and lasting for the duration. The Sphere 
is Difficult Terrain, and it is filied with strange whis- 
pers and slurping noises, which can be heard up to 
30 feet away. No light, magical or otherwise, can il- 
luminate the area, and creatures fully within it have 
the Blinded condition. 

Any creature that starts its trv. in the area takes 
246 Cold damage. Any creature ihat ends its turn 


there must ` :icceed on a Dexterity saving throw or 
take 2d6 Acid damage from otherworldly tentacles. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold or Acid 
damage (your choice) increases by 1d6 for each spell 
slot level above 3. 


Ice KNIFE 


HUNTER'S MARK 
Level 1 Divination (Ranger) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: 90 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour target and each creature within 5 feet of it must 
succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 
Cold damage. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold damage 
increases by 146 for each spell slot level above 1. 


You magically mark one creature you can see 
within range as your quarry. Until the spell ends, 
you deal an extra 146 Force damage to the target 
whenever you hit it with an attack roll. You also 
have Advantage on any Wisdom (Perception or Sur- 
vival) check you make to find it. ICE STORM 

If the target drops to O Hit Points before this spell Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
ends, you can take a Bonus Action to move the mark 
to a new creature you can see within range. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra- 
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 5-4 (up 
to 8 hours) or 5+ (up to 24 hours). 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 300 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a mitten) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Hail falls in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder 
centered on a point within range. Each creature 


HYPNOTIC PATTERN in the Cylinder makes a Dexterity saving throw. A 
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) creature takes 2d10 Bludgeoning damage and 4d6 
Casting Time: Action Cold damage on a failed save or half as much dam- Ik | 
Range: 120 feet age ona successful one. 
Components: S, M (a pinch of confetti) E n ae i es dà ше са inte Dit: 
ion: C iiratian, upto 1 minut Terrain until the end of your next turn. 
ршаноп: Sennen P 5 Using а Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Bludgeoning 
You create a twisting pattern of colors in а 30-foot damage increases by 1d10 for each spell slot level 
Cube within range. The pattern appears for a mo- above 4. 


ment and vanishes. Each creature in the area who 

can see the pattern must succeed on a Wisdom 

saving throw or have the Charmed condition for IDENTIFY 

the duration. While Charmed, the creature has the Level 1 Divination (Bard, Wizard) 

Incapacitated condition and a Speed of 0. Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 
The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes Range: Touch 


any damage or if someone else uses an action to Components: V, S, M (a pearl worth 100+ GP) 
shake the creature out of its stupor. Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch an object throughout the spell's casting. 
ICE KNIFE If the object is a magic item or some other magi- 
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) cal object, you learn its properties and how to use 
them, whether it requires Attunement, and how 
many charges it has, if any. You learn whether any 
ongoing spells are affecting the item and what they 
are. If the item was created by a spell, you learn that 
spell's name. 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: 5, M (a drop of water or a piece of ice) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You create a shard of ice and fling it at one creature If you instead touch a creature throughout the 
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against casting, you learn which ongoing spells, if any, are 
the target. (i. « hit, the target takes 1d10 Piercing currently affecting it. 


damage. Hit cv 11155, the shard then explodes. The 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 287 


ILLUSORY SCRIPT 
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 


Range: Touch | 
Components: S, M (ink worth 10+ GP, which the spell 


consumes) 
Duration: 10 days 
You write on parchment, paper, or another suitable 
material and imbue it with an illusion that lasts for 
the duration. To you and any creatures you desig- 
nate when you cast the spell, the writing appears 
normal, seems to be written in your hand, and 
conveys whatever meaning you intended when you 
wrote the text. To all others, the writing appears as 
if it were written in an unknown or magical script 
that is unintelligible. Alternatively, the illusion can 
alter the meaning, handwriting, and language of the 
text, though the language must be one you know. 

If the spell is dispelled, the original script and the 


illusion both disappear. 
A creature that has Truesight can read the hidden 


message. 


IMPRISONMENT 
Level 9 Abjuration (Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 1 minute 


Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a statuette of the target worth 


5,000+ GP) 
Duration: Until dispelled 


You create a magical restraint to hold a creature 
that you can see within range. The target must 
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, 
the target is unaffected, and it is immune to this 
spell for the next 24 hours. On a failed save, the 
target is imprisoned. While imprisoned, the target 
doesn't need to breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesn't 
age. Divination spells can't locate or perceive the 
imprisoned target, and the target can't teleport. 

Until the spell ends, the target is also affected by 
one of the following effects of your choice: 


Burial. The target is entombed beneath the earth in 
a hollow globe of magical force that is just large 
enough to contain the target. Nothing can pass 
into or out of the globe. 

Chaining. Chains firmly rooted in the ground hold 
the target in place. The target has the Restrained 
condition and can't be moved by any means. 

Hedged Prison. The target is trapped in a demi- 
plane that is warded against teleportation and 
planar travel. The demiplane is your choice of a 
labyrinth, a cage, a tower, or the like. 


| 288 — CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


Minimus Containment. The target becomes 1 inch 
tall and is trapped inside an indestructible gem- 
stone or a similar object. Light can pass through 
the gemstone (allowing the target to see out and 
other creatures to see in), but nothing else can 


pass through by any means. 
Slumber. The target has the Unconscious condition 


and can't be awoken. 

Ending the Spell. When you cast the spell, specify 
a trigger that will end it. The trigger can be as sim- 
ple or as elaborate as you choose, but the DM must 
agree that it has a high likelihood of happening 
within the next decade. The trigger must be an ob- 
servable action, such as someone making a partic- 
ular offering at the temple of your god, saving your 
true love, or defeating a specific monster. 

A Dispel Magic spell can end the spell only if it is 
cast with a level 9 spell slot, targeting either the 
prison or the component used to create it. 


INCENDIARY CLOUD 
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A swirling cloud of embers and smoke fills a 
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within 
range. The cloud's area is Heavily Obscured. It lasts 
for the duration or until a strong wind (like that 
created by Gust of Wind) disperses it. 

When the cloud appears, each creature in it 
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d8 Fire 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one. A creature must also make 
this save when the Sphere moves into its space and 
when it enters the Sphere or ends its turn there. A 
creature makes this save only once per turn. 

The cloud moves 10 feet away from you in a direc- 
tion you choose at the start of each of your turns. 


INFLICT WOUNDS 
Level 1 Necromancy (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


A creature you touch makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 2d10 Necrotic damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slat. The damage in- 
creases by 1d10 for each spel! slot level above 1. 


INSECT PLAGUE 
Level 5 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 300 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a locust) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


Swarming locusts fill a 20-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on a point you choose within range. The 
Sphere remains for the duration, and its area is 
Lightly Obscured and Difficult Terrain. 

When the swarm appears, each creature in it 
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 4d10 
Piercing damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. A creature also makes 
this save when it enters the spell's area for the first 
time on a turn or ends its turn there. A creature 
makes this save only once per turn. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1410 for each spell slot level above 5. 


WITH HER SPELL, JALLARZI'S STORM OF RADIANCE, THE 
WARLOCK JALLARZI MAKES VROCKS REGRET LEAVING THE ABYSS 


fs 


INVISIBILITY 

Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (an eyelash in gum arabic) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


A creature you touch has the Invisible condition un- 
til the spell ends. The spell ends early immediately 
after the target makes an attack roll, deals damage, 
or casts a spell. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2. 


JALLARZI'S STORM OF RADIANCE 
Level 5 Evocation (Warlock, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Component: V, S, M (a pinch of phosphorus) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You unleash a storm of flashing light and raging 
thunder in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylin- 
der centered on a point you can see within range. 
While in this area, creatures have the Blinded and 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


289 


Deafened conditions, and they can't cast spells with 


a Verbal component. S 
When the storm appears, each creature in it 
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 2d10 
Radiant damage and 2d10 Thunder damage on a 
failed save or half as much damage on a successful 
one. À creature also makes this save when it enters 
the spell's area for the first time on a turn or ends 
its turn there. A creature makes this save only once 


per turn. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Radiant and 


Thunder damage increase by 1d10 for each spell slot 
level above 5. 


JUMP 

Level 1 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Touch 

Component: V, S, M (a grasshopper's hind leg) 
Duration: 1 minute 


You touch a willing creature. Once on each of its 
turns until the spell ends, that creature can jump up 
to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. 


KNOCK 
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Choose an object that you can see within range. The 
object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of man- 
acles, a padlock, or another object that contains a 
mundane or magical means that prevents access. 

A target that is held shut by a mundane lock or 
that is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck, 
or unbarred. If the object has multiple locks, only 
one of them is unlocked. 

If the target is held shut by Arcane Lock, that spell 
is suppressed for 10 minutes, during which time the 
target can be opened and closed. 

When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible up 
to 300 feet away, emanates from the target. 


LEGEND LORE 
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Wizard) 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 


Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 250+ GP, which 


the spell consumes, and four ivory strips worth 50+ 
GP each) 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Name or describe a famous person, place, or object. 
The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of 
the significant lore about that famous thing, as de- 
scribed by the DM. 

The lore might consist of important details, amus- 
ing revelations, or even secret lore that has never 
been widely known. The more information you 
already know about the thing, the more precise and 
detailed the information you receive is. That infor- 
mation is accurate but might be couched in figura- 
tive language or poetry, as determined by the DM. 

If the famous thing you chose isn't actually fa- 
mous, you hear sad musical notes played on a trom- 
bone, and the spell fails. 


LEOMUND’S SECRET CHEST 
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a chest, 3 feet by 2 feet by 2 
feet, constructed from rare materials worth 5,0004 
GP, and a Tiny replica of the chest made from the 
same materials worth 50+ GP) 

Duration: Until dispelled 


You hide a chest and all its contents on the Ethereal 
Plane. You must touch the chest and the miniature 
replica that serve as Material components for the 
spell. The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of 
nonliving material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet). 

While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane, 
you can take a Magic action and touch the replica to 
recall the chest. It appears in an unoccupied space 
on the ground within 5 feet of you. You can send 
the chest back to the Ethereal Plane by taking a 
Magic action to touch the chest and the replica. 

After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent 
chance at the end of each day that the spell ends. 
The spell also ends if you cast this spell again or if 
the Tiny replica chest is destroved. If the spell ends 
and the larger chest is on the Ethereal Plane, the 
chest remains there for you or someone else to find. 


LEOMUND 5 TINY Нот 
Level 3 Evocation (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 
Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a crystal bead) 
Duration: 8 hours 


A 10-foot Emanation springs into existence around 
you and remains stationary for the duration. The 
spell fails when you cast it if the Emanation isn't big 
enough to fully encapsulate all creatures in its area. 

Creatures and objects within the Emanation when 
you cast the spell can move through it freely. All 
other creatures and objects are barred from passing 
through it. Spells of level 3 or lower can't be cast 
through it, and the effects of such spells can't ex- 
tend into it. 

The atmosphere inside the Emanation is com- 
fortable and dry, regardless of the weather outside. 
Until the spell ends, you can command the interior 
to have Dim Light or Darkness (no action required). 
The Emanation is opaque from the outside and of 
any color you choose, but it’s transparent from the 
inside. 

The spell ends early if you leave the Emanation or 
if you cast it again. 


LESSER RESTORATION 

Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch a creature and end one condition on it: 
Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, or Poisoned. 


LEVITATE 

Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a metal spring) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


One creature or loose object of your choice that you 
can see within range rises vertically up to 20 feet 
and remains suspended there for the duration. The 
spell can levitate an object that weighs up to 500 
pounds. An unwilling creature that succeeds on a 
Constitution saving throw is unaffected. 

The target can move only by pushing or pulling 
against a fixed object or surface within reach (such 
as a wall or a ceiling), which allows it to move as if it 
were climbing. You can change the target's altitude 


by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If 
you are the target, you can move up or down as part 
of your move. Otherwise, you can takea Magic ac- 
tion to move the target, which must remain within 


the spell's range. 
When the spell ends, the target floats gently to the 


ground if it is still aloft. 


LIGHT | 
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, M (a firefly or phosphorescent moss) 


Duration: 1 hour 


You touch one Large or smaller object that isn't 
being worn or carried by someone else. Until the 
spell ends, the object sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. The 
light can be colored as you like. 

Covering the object with something opaque 
blocks the light. The spell ends if you cast it again. 


LIGHTNING ARROW 

Level 3 Transmutation (Ranger) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting or missing a target with a ranged 
attack using a weapon 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


As your attack hits or misses the target, the weapon 
or ammunition you're using transforms into а 
lightning bolt. Instead of taking any damage or 
other effects from the attack, the target takes 4d8 
Lightning damage on a hit or half as much damage 
on a miss. Each creature within 10 feet of the target 
then makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d8 
Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 

The weapon or ammunition then returns to its 
normal form. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage for 
both effects of the spell increases by 1d8 for each 
spell slot level above 3. 


LIGHTNING BOLT 
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur and a crystal rod) 


Duration: Instantaneous 


A stroke of lightning forming a 100-foot-long, 
5-foot-wide Line blasts out from you in a direction 
you choose. Each creature in the Line makes a Dex- 
terity saving throw, taking 8d6 Lightning damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc- 


cessful one. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3. 


LOCATE ANIMALS OR PLANTS 
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Describe or name a specific kind of Beast, Plant 
creature, or nonmagical plant. You learn the direc- 
tion and distance to the closest creature or plant of 
that kind within 5 miles, if any are present. 


LOCATE CREATURE 
Level 4 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


Describe or name a creature that is familiar to you. 
You sense the direction to the creature's location 
if that creature is within 1,000 feet of you. If the 
creature is moving, you know the direction of its 
movement. 

The spell can locate a specific creature known to 
you or the nearest creature of a specific kind (such 
as a human or a unicorn) if you have seen such a 
creature up close—within 30 feet—at least once. 

If the creature you described or named is in a dif- 
ferent form, such as under the effects of a Flesh to 
Stone or Polymorph spell, this spe!l doesn't locate the 
creature. 

This spell can't locate a creature if any thickness 
of lead blocks a direct path between you and the 
creature. 


LOCATE OBJECT 

Level 2 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 


Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M (a forked twig) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


Describe or name an object that is familiar to you. 
You sense the direction to the object’s location 

if that object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the 
object is in motion, you know the direction of its 
movement. 

The spell can locate a specific object known to you 
if you have seen it up close—within 30 feet—at least 
once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest 
object of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of 
apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon. 

This spell can't locate an object if any thickness 
of lead blocks a direct path between you and the 
object. 


LONGSTRIDER 
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dirt) 
Duration: 1 hour 


You touch a creature. The target's Speed increases 
by 10 feet until the spell ends. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. 


МАСЕ ARMOR 
Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a piece of cured leather) 
Duration: 8 hours 


You touch a willing creature who isn't wearing 
armor. Until the spell ends, the target's base AC be- 
comes 13 plus its Dexterity modifier. The spell ends 
early if the target dons armor. 


Casting Time: Action 


Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 minute 


A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you 
choose within range. The hand lasts for the dura- 
tion. The hand vanishes if it is ever more than 20 
feet away from you or if you cast this spell again. 

When you cast the spell, you can use the hand 
to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or 
container, stow or retrieve an item from an open 
container, or pour the contents out of a vial. 

As a Magic action on your later turns, you can 
control the hand thus again. As part of that action, 
you can move the hand up to 30 feet. 

The hand can't attack, activate magic items, or 
carry more than 10 pounds. 


МАСІС CIRCLE 

Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: V, S, M (salt and powdered silver worth 
100-- GP, which the spell consumes) 

Duration: 1 hour 


You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall Cylinder of 
magical energy centered on a point on the ground 
that you can see within range. Glowing runes ap- 
pear wherever the Cylinder intersects with the floor 
or other surface. 

Choose one or more of the following types of 
creatures: Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or 
Undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen 
type in the following ways: 


* The creature can't willingly enter the Cylinder 
by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use 
teleportation or interplanar travel to do so, it must 
first succeed on a Charisma saving throw. 

* The creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against targets within the Cylinder. 

- Targets within the Cylinder can't be possessed 
by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condition 
from the creature. 


Each time you cast this spell, you can cause its 
magic to operate in the reverse direction, prevent- 
ing a creature of the specified type from leaving the 
Cylinder and protecting targets outside it. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration in- 
creases by 1 hour for each spell slot level above 3. 


= CHAPTER7|SPELLS | 


| 


НЕШ 1! 


ARMOR 


A HUMAN WIZARD FENDS OFF PERIL WITH MAGE 


AND THE UNERRING BOLTS OF MaGıc MISSILE 


MAGIC JAR 

Level 6 Necromancy (Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a gem, crystal, or reliquary 
worth 500+ GP) 

Duration: Until dispelled 


Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soul 
leaves it and enters the container you used for the 
spell’s Material component. While your soul inhab- 
its the container, you are aware of your surround- 
ings as if you were in the container's space. You 
can't move or take Reactions. The only action you 
can take is to project your soul up to 100 feet out of 
the container, either returning to your living body 
(and ending the spell) or attempting to possess a 
Humanoid's body. 

You can attempt to possess any Humanoid within 
100 feet of you that you can see (creatures warded 
by a Protection from Evil and Good or Magic Circle 
spell can't be possessed). The target makes a Cha- 
risma saving throw. On a failed save, your soul en- 
ters the target's body, and the target's soul becomes 
trapped in the container. On a successful save, the 


TER 7 | SPELLS 


b. ^wagemrAmMTSG£S. 


target resists your efforts to possess it, and you 
can't attempt to possess it again for 24 hours. 

Once you possess a creature's body, you control it. 
Your Hit Points, Hit Point Dice, Strength, Dexterity, 
Constitution, Speed, and senses are replaced by the 
creature's. You otherwise keep your game statistics. 

Meanwhile, the possessed creature's soul can per- 
ceive from the container using its own senses, but it 
can't move and it is Incapacitated. 

While possessing a body, you can take a Magic ac- 
tion to return from the host body to the container if 
it is within 100 feet of you, returning the host crea- 
ture's soul to its body. If the host body dies while 
youre in it, the creature dies, and you make a Cha- 
risma saving throw against your own spellcasting 
DC. On a success, you return to the container if it is 
within 100 feet of you. Otherwise, you die. 

If the container is destroyed or the spell ends, 
your soul returns to your body. If your body is 
more than 100 feet away from you or if your body 
is dead, you die. If another creature's soul is in the 
container when it is destroyed, the creature's soul 
returns to its body if the body is alive and within 
100 feet. Otherwise, that creature dies. 

When the spell ends, the container is destroyed. 


AARON | RILEY 


MAGIC M:5SILE 

Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You create three glowing darts of magical force. 
Each dart strikes a creature of your choice that 
you can see within range. A dart deals 1d4 + 1 Force 
damage to its target. The darts all strike simultane- 
ously, and you can direct them to hit one creature 
or several. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell creates 
one more dart for each spell slot level above 1. 


Macic MouTH 
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 10+ GP, which 
the spell consumes) 

Duration: Until dispelled 


You implant a message within an object in range—a 
message that is uttered when a trigger condition 

is met. Choose an object that you can see and that 
isn't being worn or carried by another creature. 


Then speak the message, which must be 25 words or 


fewer, though it can be delivered over as long as 10 
minutes. Finally, determine the circumstance that 
will trigger the spell to deliver your message. 

When that trigger occurs, a magical mouth ap- 
pears on the object and recites the message in your 
voice and at the same volume you spoke. If the ob- 
ject you chose has a mouth or something that looks 
like a mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), 
the magical mouth appears there, so the words ap- 
pear to come from the object's mouth. When you 
cast this spell, you can have the spell end after it 
delivers its message, or it can remain and repeat its 
message whenever the trigger occurs. 

The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you 
like, though it must be based on visual or audible 
conditions that occur within 30 feet of the object. 
For example, you could instruct the mouth to speak 
when any creature moves within 30 feet of the ob- 
ject or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it. 


а. 


Macic WEAPON 

Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 1 hour 


You touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell 
ends, that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a 
+1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls. The spell 
ends early if you cast it again. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The bonus in- 
creases to +2 with a level 3-5 spell slot. The bonus 
increases to +3 with a level 6+ spell slot. 


MAJOR IMAGE 

Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You create the image of an object, a creature, or 
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger 
than a 20-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot 
that you can see within range and lasts for the du- 
ration. It seems real, including sounds, smells, and 
temperature appropriate to the thing depicted, but 
it can't deal damage or cause conditions. 

If you are within range of the illusion, you can 
take a Magic action to cause the image to move to 
any other spot within range. As the image changes 
location, you can alter its appearance so that its 
movements appear natural for the image. For exam- 
ple, if you create an image of a creature and move 
it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be 
walking. Similarly, you can cause the illusion to 
make different sounds at different times, even mak- 
ing it carry on a conversation, for example. 

Physical interaction with the image reveals it to 
be an illusion, for things can pass through it. A crea- 
ture that takes a Study action to examine the image 
can determine that it is an illusion with a success- 
ful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your 
spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for 
what it is, the creature can see through the image, 
and its other sensory qualities become faint to the 
creature. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell lasts until 
dispelled, without requiring Concentration, if cast 
with a level 4« spell slot. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS | 298. 


—— 


296 


Mass CURE WOUNDS 
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
A wave of healing energy washes out from a point 
you can see within range. Choose up to six crea- 
tures in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on that 
point. Each target regains Hit Points equal to 5d8 
plus your spellcasting ability modifier. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5. 


Mass HEAL 

Level 9 Abjuration (Cleric) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


A flood of healing energy flows from you into 
creatures around you. You restore up to 700 Hit 
Points, divided as you choose among any number of 
creatures that you can see within range. Creatures 
healed by this spell also have the Blinded, Deafened, 
and Poisoned conditions removed from them. 


Mass HEALING WORD 
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: 60 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see 
within range regain Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus 
your spellcasting ability modifier. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in- 
creases by 1d4 for each spell slot level above 3. 


MASS SUGGESTION 
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, M (a snake’s tongue) 
Duration: 24 hours 


You suggest a course of activity—described in no 
more than 25 words—to twelve or fewer crea- 
tures you can see within range that can hear and 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


understand you. The suggestion must sound achiev- 
able and not involve anything that would obviously 
deal damage to any of the targets or their allies. For 
example, you could say, “Walk to the village down 
that road, and help the villagers there harvest crops 
until sunset.” Or you could say, “Now is not the time 
for violence. Drop your weapons, and dance! Stop in 
an hour.” 

Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura- 
tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the 
target. Each Charmed target pursues the suggestion 
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can 
continue for the entire duration, but if the sug- 
gested activity can be completed in a shorter time, 
the spell ends for a target upon completing it. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration is 
longer with a spell slot of level 7 (10 days), 8 (30 
days), or 9 (366 days). 


MAZE 

Level 8 Conjuration (Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You banish a creature that you can see within range 
into a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains 
there for the duration or until it escapes the maze. 

The target can take a Study action to try to es- 
cape. When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and 
the spell ends. 

When the spell ends, the target reappears in the 
space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the near- 
est unoccupied space. 


MELD INTO STONE 
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 
Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 8 hours 


You step into a stone object or surface large enough 
to fully contain your body, merging yourself and 
your equipment with the stone for the duration. 
You must touch the stone to do so. Nothing of your 
presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by 
nonmagical senses. 

While merged with the storie, you can't see what 
occurs outside it, and any Wisdc:; (Perception) 
checks you make to hear sov oc: outside it are made 


SD Wo 
ELF TAKES AIM АТА. 
ELF'S AciD ARRO 


with Disadvantage. You remain aware of the pas- 
sage of time and can cast spells on yourself while 
merged in the stone. You can use 5 feet of move- 
ment to leave the stone where you entered it, which 
ends the spell. You otherwise can't move. 

Minor physical damage to the stone doesn't harm 
you, but its partial destruction or a change in its 
shape (to the extent that you no longer fit within it) 
expels you and deals 6d6 Force damage to you. The 
stone's complete destruction (or transmutation into 
a different substance) expels you and deals 50 Force 
damage to you. If expelled, you move into an unoc- 
cupied space closest to where you first entered and 
have the Prone condition. 


MELF'S ACID ARROW 
Level 2 Evocation (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (powdered rhubarb leaf) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a target 
within range and bursts in a spray of acid. Make a 
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the 


target takes 4d4 Acid damage and 2d4 Acid damage 
at the end of its next turn. On a miss, the arrow 
splashes the target with acid for half as much of the 
initial damage only. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage (both 
initial and later) increases by 1d4 for each spell slot 
level above 2. 


MENDING 


Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (two lodestones) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object 
you touch, such as a broken chain link, two halves 
of a broken key, a torn cloak, or a leaking wineskin. 
As long as the break or tear is no larger than 1 foot 
in any dimension, you mend it, leaving no trace of 
the former damage. 

This spell can physically repair a magic item, but 
it can't restore magic to such an object. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


297 


MESSAGE | 
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet | 

Components: S, M (a copper wire) 

Duration: 1 round 

You point toward a creature within range and 
whisper a message. The target (and only the target) 
hears the message and can reply in a whisper that 


only you can hear. | 
You can cast this spell through solid objects if you 


are familiar with the target and know it is beyond 
the barrier. Magical silence; 1 foot of stone, metal, or 
wood; or a thin sheet of lead blocks the spell. 


METEOR SWARM 

Level 9 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 1 mile 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four 
different points you can see within range. Each 
creature in a 40-foot-radius Sphere centered on 
each of those points makes a Dexterity saving 
throw. A creature takes 20d6 Fire damage and 
20d6 Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one. A creature in 
the area of more than one fiery Sphere is affected 
only once. 

A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or car- 
ried also takes the damage if it’s in the spell's area, 
and the object starts burning if it’s flammable. 


MIND BLANK 
Level 8 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 24 hours 


Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch 
has Immunity to Psychic damage and the Charmed 
condition. The target is also unaffected by anything 
that would sense its emotions or alignment, read its 
thoughts, or magically detect its location, and no 
spell—not even Wish—can gather information about 
the target, observe it remotely, or control its mind. 


298 | CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


MIND SLIVER 

Enchantment Cantrip (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: 1 round 

You try to temporarily sliver the mind of one crea- 

ture you can see within range. The target must 

succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 1d6 

Psychic damage and subtract 1d4 from the next sav- 

ing throw it makes before the end of your next turn. 
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6 

when you reach levels 5 (246), 11 (546), and 17 (4d6). 


MIND SPIKE 

Level 2 Divination (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 


Components: S 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You drive a spike of psionic energy into the mind of 
one creature you can see within range. The target 
makes a Wisdom saving throw, taking 3d8 Psychic 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on 
a successful one. On a failed save, you also always 
know the target's location until the spell ends, but 
only while the two of you are on the same plane 
of existence. While you have this knowledge, the 
target can't become hidden from you, and if it has 
the Invisible condition, it gains no benefit from that 
condition against you. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2. 


MINOR ILLUSION 
Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: S, M (a bit of fleece) 
Duration: 1 minute 


You create a sound or an image of an object within 
range that lasts for the duration. See the descrip- 
tions below for the effects of each. The illusion ends 
if you cast this spell again. 

If a creature takes a Study action to examine the 
sound or image, the creature can determine that it 
is an illusion with a successfu! intelligence (Investi- 
gation) check against your spei! save DC. If a crea- 
ture discerns the illusion for v.j.5t it is, the illusion 
becomes faint to the creature 


E 


Sound. If you create a sound, its volume can 

range from a whisper to a scream. It can be your 
voice, someone else's voice, a lion's roar, a beating of 
drums, or any other sound you choose. The sound 
continues unabated throughout the duration, or you 
can make discrete sounds at different times before 
the spell ends. 

Image. If you create an image of an object—such 
as a chair, muddy footprints, or a small chest—it 
must be no larger than a 5-foot Cube. The image 
can't create sound, light, smell, or any other sensory 
effect. Physical interaction with the image reveals it 
to be an illusion, since things can pass through it. 


MIRAGE ARCANE 
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Sight 
Components: V, 5 
Duration: 10 days 


You make terrain in an area up to 1 mile square 
look, sound, smell, and even feel like some other 
sort of terrain. Open fields or a road could be made 
to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other 
rough or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to 
seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle 
slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth 
road. 

Similarly, you can alter the appearance of struc- 
tures or add them where none are present. The spell 
doesn't disguise, conceal, or add creatures. 

The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and 
olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground into 
Difficult Terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede 
movement through the area. Any piece of the illu- 
sory terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed 
from the spell's area disappears immediately. 

Creatures with Truesight can see through the illu- 
sion to the terrain's true form; however, all other el- 
ements of the illusion remain, so while the creature 
is aware of the illusion's presence, the creature can 
still physically interact with the illusion. 


MIRROR IMAGE 
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 minute 


Three illusory duplicates of yourself appear in your 
space. Until tie spell ends, the duplicates move with 
you and mimic your actions, shifting position so it's 
impossible to track which image is real. 


Each time a creature hits you with an attack roll 
during the spell's duration, roll a d6 for each of your 
remaining duplicates. If any of the d6s rolls a 3 or 
higher, one of the duplicates is hit instead of you, 
and the duplicate is destroyed. The duplicates other- 
wise ignore all other damage and effects. The spell 
ends when all three duplicates are destroyed. 

A creature is unaffected by this spell if it has the 
Blinded condition, Blindsight, or Truesight. 


MISLEAD 

Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You gain the Invisible condition at the same time 
that an illusory double of you appears where you 
are standing. The double lasts for the duration, but 
the invisibility ends immediately after you make an 
attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell. 

As a Magic action, you can move the illusory 
double up to twice your Speed and make it gesture, 
speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It is 
intangible and invulnerable. 


You can see through its eyes and hear through its 
ears as if you were located where it is. 


MISTY STEP 

Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up 
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see. 


Moniry MEMORY 

Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You attempt to reshape another creature's mem- 
ories. One creature that you can see within range 
makes a Wisdom saving throw. If you are fighting 
the creature, it has Advantage on the save. On a 
failed save, the target has the Charmed condition 
for the duration. While Charmed in this way, the 
target also has the Incapacitated condition and is 
unaware of its surroundings, though it can hear 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


—— —— 


I 
j 


you. If it takes any damage or is targeted by another 
spell, this spell ends, and no memories are modified. 

While this charm lasts, you can affect the target's 
memory of an event that it experienced within the 
last 24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 min- 
utes. You can permanently eliminate all memory of 
the event, allow the target to recall the event with 
perfect clarity, change its memory of the event's de- 
tails, or create a memory of some other event. 

You must speak to the target to describe how its 
memories are affected, and it must be able to under- 
stand your language for the modified memories to 
take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of 
your description. If the spell ends before you finish 
describing the modified memories, the creature's 
memory isn't altered. Otherwise, the modified mem- 
ories take hold when the spell ends. 

A modified memory doesn't necessarily affect 
how a creature behaves, particularly if the mem- 
ory contradicts the creature's natural inclinations, 
alignment, or beliefs. An illogical modified memory, 
such as a false memory of how much the creature 
enjoyed swimming in acid, is dismissed as a bad 
dream. The DM might deem a modified memory too 
nonsensical to affect a creature. 

A Remove Curse or Greater Restoration spell cast on 
the target restores the creature's true memory. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can alter the 
target's memories of an event that took place up to 7 
days ago (level 6 spell slot), 30 days ago (level 7 spell 
slot), 365 days ago (level 8 spell slot), or any time in 
the creature's past (level 9 spell slot). 


MOONBEAM 
Level 2 Evocation (Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a moonseed leaf) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a 
5-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a 
point within range. Until the spell ends, Dim Light 
fills the Cylinder, and you can take a Magic action 
on later turns to move the Cylinder up to 60 feet. 
When the Cylinder appears, each creature in it 
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, a creature takes 2d10 Radiant damage, and if 
the creature is shape-shifted (as a result of the Poly- 
morph spell, for example), it reverts to its true form 
and can't shape-shift until it leaves the Cylinder. 
On a successful save, a creature takes half as much 
damage only. À creature also makes this save when 
the spell's area moves into its space and when it 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


enters the spell's area or ends its turn there. A crea- 
ture makes this save only once per turn. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 2. 


MORDENKAINEN'S FAITHFUL HOUND 
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a silver whistle) 


Duration: 8 hours 

You conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied 
space that you can see within range. The hound 
remains for the duration or until the two of you are 
more than 300 feet apart from each other. 

No one but you can see the hound, and it is in- 
tangible and invulnerable. When a Small or larger 
creature comes within 30 feet of it without first 
speaking the password that you specify when you 
cast this spell, the hound starts barking loudly. The 
hound has Truesight with a range of 30 feet. 

At the start of each of your turns, the hound at- 
tempts to bite one enemy within 5 feet of it. That 
enemy must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or 


take 4d8 Force damage. 
On your later turns, you can take a Magic action 


to move the hound up to 30 feet. 


MORDENKAINEN'S MAGNIFICENT MANSION 
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: ] minute 

Range: 300 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a miniature door worth 15+ GP) 
Duration: 24 hours 


You conjure a shimmering door in range that lasts 
for the duration. The door leads to an extradimen- 
sional dwelling and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall. 
You and any creature you designate when you cast 
the spell can enter the extradimensional dwelling 
as long as the door remains open. You can open or 
close it (no action required) if you are within 30 
feet of it. While closed, the door is imperceptible. 

Beyond the door is a magnificent foyer with 
numerous chambers beyond. The dwelling's atmo- 
sphere is clean, fresh, and warm. 

You can create any floor plan you like for the 
dwelling, but it can't exceed 50 contiguous 10-foot 
Cubes. The place is furnished and decorated as you 
choose. It contains sufficient food to serve a nine- 
course banquet for up to 100 people. Furnishings 
and other objects created by this spell dissipate into 
smoke if removed from it. 


THe WizARO MORDENKAINEN WELCOMES 
GUESTS TO HIS MAGICAL OWELLING, 
MOoRDENKAINEN'S MAGNIFICENT MANSION. 


A staff of 100 near-transparent servants attends 
all who enter. You determine the appearance of 
these servants and their attire. They are invulner- 
able and obey your commands. Each servant can 
perform tasks that a human could perform, but they 
can't attack or take any action that would directly 
harm another creature. Thus the servants can fetch 
things, clean, mend, fold clothes, light fires, serve 
food, pour wine, and so on. The servants can't leave 
the dwelling. 

When the spell ends, any creatures or objects left 
inside the extradimensional space are expelled into 
the unoccupied spaces nearest to the entrance. 


MORDENKAINEN’S PRIVATE SANCTUM 
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard) 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a thin sheet of lead) 
Duration: 24 hours 


You make an area within range magically secure. 
The area is a Cube that can be as small as 5 feet to 
as large as 100 feet on each side. The spell lasts for 
the duration. 


When you cast the spell, you decide what sort of 


security the spell provides, choosing any of the fol- 
lowing properties: 


* Sound can't pass through the barrier at the edge 


of the warded area. 


* The barrier of the warded area appears dark and 


foggy, preventing vision (including Darkvision) 
through it. 


* Sensors created by Divination spells can't appear 


inside the protected area or pass through the bar- 
rier at its perimeter. 

* Creatures in the area can't be targeted by Divina- 
tion spells. 

* Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded 
area. 

- Planar travel is blocked within the warded area. 


Casting this spell on the same spot every day for 
$65 days makes the spell last until dispelled. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can increase 
the size of the Cube by 100 feet for each spell slot 
level above 4. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


ральны BM A 


301 


MORDENKAINEN'S SWORD 
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a miniature sword worth 
250+ GP) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

You create a spectral sword that hovers within 

range. It lasts for the duration. 

When the sword appears, you make a melee spell 
attack against a target within 5 feet of the sword. 
Оп а hit, the target takes Force damage equal to 
4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. 

On your later turns, you can take a Bonus Action 
to move the sword up to 30 feet to a spot you can 
see and repeat the attack against the same target or 
a different one. 


MOVE EARTH 
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a miniature shovel) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours 


Choose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on 
a side within range. You can reshape dirt, sand, or 
clay in the area in any manner you choose for the 
duration. You can raise or lower the area's eleva- 
tion, create or fill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall, 
or form a pillar. The extent of any such changes 
can't exceed half the area's largest dimension. For 
example, if you affect a 40-foot square, you can 
create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower the 
square's elevation by up to 20 feet, dig a trench up 
to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for 
these changes to complete. Because the terrain's 
transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area 
can't usually be trapped or injured by the ground's 
movement. 

At the end of every 10 minutes you spend concen- 
trating on the spell, you can choose a new area of 
terrain to affect within range. 

This spell can't manipulate natural stone or stone 
construction. Rocks and structures shift to accom- 
modate the new terrain. If the way you shape the 
terrain would make a structure unstable, it might 
collapse. 

Similarly, this spell doesn't directly affect plant 
growth. The moved earth carries any plants along 


with it. 


302 М CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


NONDETECTION 
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Ranger, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of diamond dust worth 


254 GP, which the spell consumes) 
Duration: 8 hours 
For the duration, you hide a target that you touch 
from Divination spells. The target can be a willing 
creature, or it can be a place or an object no larger 
than 10 feet in any dimension. The target can't 
be targeted by any Divination spell or perceived 
through magical scrying sensors. 


NvsTULS MAGIC AURA 

Level 2 Illusion (Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a small square of silk) 
Duration: 24 hours 


With a touch, you place an illusion on a willing 
creature or an object that isn't being worn or car- 
ried. A creature gains the Mask effect below, and an 
object gains the False Aura effect below. The effect 
lasts for the duration. If you cast the spell on the 
same target every day for 30 days, the illusion lasts 
until dispelled. 

Mask (Creature). Choose a creature type other 
than the target's actual type. Spells and other magi- 
cal effects treat the target as if it were a creature of 
the chosen type. 

False Aura (Object). You change the way the target 
appears to spells and magical effects that detect 
magical auras, such as Detect Magic. You can make 
a nonmagical object appear magical, make a magic 
item appear nonmagical, or change the object's aura 
so that it appears to belong to a school of magic you 
choose. 


OTILUKE'S FREEZING SPHERE 
Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 300 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a miniature crystal sphere) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


A frigid globe streaks from you to a point of 

your choice within range, where it explodes in a 
60-foot-radius Sphere. Each creature in that area 
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 10d6 
Cold damage on failed save o: !:aif as much damage 
on a successful one. 


p 


If the glove strikes a body of water, it freezes the 
water to a depth of 6 inches over an area 30 feet 
square. This ice lasts for 1 minute. Creatures that 
were swimming on the surface of frozen water are 
trapped in the ice and have the Restrained condi- 
tion. A trapped creature can take an action to make 
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save 
DC to break free. 

You can refrain from firing the globe after com- 
pleting the spell’s casting. If you do so, a globe about 
the size of a sling bullet, cool to the touch, appears 
in your hand. At any time, you or a creature you 
give the globe to can throw the globe (to a range of 
40 feet) or hurl it with a sling (to the sling's normal 
range). It shatters on impact, with the same effect 
as a normal casting of the spell. You can also set the 
globe down without shattering it. After 1 minute, if 
the globe hasn't already shattered, it explodes. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 6. 


OTILUKE’S RESILIENT SPHERE 
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a glass sphere) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A shimmering sphere encloses a Large or smaller 
creature or object within range. An unwilling crea- 
ture must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or 
be enclosed for the duration. 

Nothing—not physical objects, energy, or other 
spell effects—can pass through the barrier, in or out, 
though a creature in the sphere can breathe there. 
The sphere is immune to all damage, and a creature 
or object inside can’t be damaged by attacks or ef- 
fects originating from outside, nor can a creature 
inside the sphere damage anything outside it. 

The sphere is weightless and just large enough to 
contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed 
creature can take an action to push against the 
sphere’s walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half 
the creature’s Speed. Similarly, the globe can be 
picked up and moved by other creatures. 

A Disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it 
without harming anything inside. 


Р = 


OTTO’s IRRESISTIBLE DANCE 
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


One creature that you can see within range must 
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, 
the target dances comically until the end of its next 
turn, during which it must spend all its movement 
to dance in place. 

On a failed save, the target has the Charmed con- 
dition for the duration. While Charmed, the target 
dances comically, must use all its movement to 
dance in place, and has Disadvantage on Dexterity 
saving throws and attack rolls, and other creatures 
have Advantage on attack rolls against it. On each 
of its turns, the target can take an action to collect 
itself and repeat the save, ending the spell on itself 
On à success. 


PASSWALL 

Level 5 Transmutation (Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 


Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sesame seeds) | 
Duration: 1 hour { 


әш 


А passage appears at a point that you can see оп а 

wooden, plaster, or stone surface (such as a wall, 

ceiling, or floor) within range and lasts for the dura- 

tion. You choose the opening's dimensions: up to 5 d 

feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage | 

creates no instability in a structure surrounding it. | 
When the opening disappears, any creatures or i 

objects still in the passage created by the spell are 

safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the 

surface on which you cast the spell. 


PASS WITHOUT TRACE 

Level 2 Abjuration (Druid, Ranger) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (ashes from burned mistletoe) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You radiate a concealing aura in a 30-foot Emana- 
tion for the duration. While in the aura, you and 
each creature you choose have a +10 bonus to Dex- 
terity (Stealth) checks and leave no tracks. 


PHANTASMAL FORCE 
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

You attempt to craft an illusion in the mind of 

a creature you can see within range. The target 
makes an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed 
save, you create a phantasmal object, creature, or 
other phenomenon that is no larger than a 10-foot 
Cube and that is perceivable only to the target for 
the duration. The phantasm includes sound, tem- 
perature, and other stimuli. 

The target can take a Study action to examine the 
phantasm with an Intelligence (Investigation) check 
against your spell save DC. If the check succeeds, 
the target realizes that the phantasm is an illusion, 
and the spell ends. 

While affected by the spell, the target treats the 
phantasm as if it were real and rationalizes any il- 
logical outcomes from interacting with it. For exam- 
ple, if the target steps through a phantasmal bridge 
and survives the fall, it believes the bridge exists 
and something else caused it to fall. 

An affected target can even take damage from 
the illusion if the phantasm represents a dangerous 
creature or hazard. On each of your turns, such a 
phantasm can deal 2d8 Psychic damage to the tar- 
get if it is in the phantasm's area or within 5 feet of 
the phantasm. The target perceives the damage as a 
type appropriate to the illusion. 


PHANTASMAL KILLER 
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can 
see within range and create an illusion of its deepest 
fears, visible only to that creature. The target makes 
a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target 
takes 4d10 Psychic damage and has Disadvantage 
on ability checks and attack rolls for the duration. 
On a successful save, the target takes half as much 
damage, and the spell ends. 

For the duration, the target makes a Wisdom sav- 
ing throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed 
save, it takes the Psychic damage again. On а suc- 
cessful save, the spell ends, 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 4. 


. CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS — 


PHANTOM Sreco 


PHANTOM STEED 

Level 3 Illusion (Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual 
Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 1 hour 


A Large, quasi-real, horselike creature appears on 
the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice 
within range. You decide the creature’s appearance, 
and it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any 
of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a 
puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away 
from the steed. 

For the duration, you or a creature you choose 
can ride the steed. The steed uses the Riding Horse 
stat block (see appendix B), except it has a Speed of 
100 feet and can travel 13 miles in an hour. When 
the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the 
rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends early if 
the steed takes any damage. 


PLANAR ALLY 
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric) 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. The 
being must be known to you: a gad, a demon prince, 
or some other being of cosmic power. That entity 


42 tat, iie 


NIKKI DAWES 


E 


sends a Celestial, an Elemental, or a Fiend loyal to 
it to aid you, making the creature appear in an un- 
occupied space within range. If you know a specific 
creature's name, you can speak that name when 
you cast this spell to request that creature, though 
you might get a different creature anyway (DM's 
choice). 

When the creature appears, it is under no com- 
pulsion to behave a particular way. You can ask it 
to perform a service in exchange for payment, but 
it isn't obliged to do so. The requested task could 
range from simple (fly us across the chasm, or help 
us fight a battle) to complex (spy on our enemies, or 
protect us during our foray into the dungeon). You 
must be able to communicate with the creature to 
bargain for its services. 

Payment can take a variety of forms. A Celestial 
might require a sizable donation of gold or magic 
items to an allied temple, while a Fiend might de- 
mand a living sacrifice or a gift of treasure. Some 
creatures might exchange their service for a quest 
undertaken by you. 

A task that can be measured in minutes requires 
a payment worth 100 GP per minute. A task mea- 
sured in hours requires 1,000 GP per hour. And 
a task measured in days (up to 10 days) requires 
10,000 GP per day. The DM can adjust these pay- 
ments based on the circumstances under which you 
cast the spell. If the task is aligned with the crea- 
ture's ethos, the payment might be halved or even 
waived. Nonhazardous tasks typically require only 
half the suggested payment, while especially dan- 
gerous tasks might require a greater gift. Creatures 
rarely accept tasks that seem suicidal. 

After the creature completes the task, or when the 
agreed-upon duration of service expires, the crea- 
ture returns to its home plane after reporting back 
to you if possible. If you are unable to agree on a 
price for the creature's service, the creature imme- 
diately returns to its home plane. 


PLANAR BINDING 
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Warlock, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a jewel worth 1,0004- GP, which 
the spell consumes) 

Duration: 24 hours 


You attempt to bind a Celestial, an Elemental, a 
Fey, or a Fiend to your service. The creature must 
be within range for the entire casting of the spell. 
(Typically, the creature is first summoned into 
the center of the inverted version of the Magic 
Circle spell to trap it while this spell is cast.) At the 


completion of the casting, the target must succeed 
on a Charisma saving throw or be bound to serve 
you for the duration. If the creature was summoned 
or created by another spell, that spell’s duration is 
extended to match the duration of this spell. 
A bound creature must follow your commands 
to the best of its ability. You might command the 
creature to accompany you on an adventure, to 
guard a location, or to deliver a message. If the 
creature is Hostile, it strives to twist your com- 
mands to achieve its own objectives. If the creature 
carries out your commands completely before the 
spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact if you 
are on the same plane of existence. If you are on a 
different plane, it returns to the place where you 
bound it and remains there until the spell ends. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration in- 
creases with a spell slot of level 6 (10 days), 7 (30 
days), 8 (180 days), and 9 (566 days). 


PLANE SHIFT 

Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 

Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a forked, metal rod worth 250+ 
GP and attuned to a plane of existence) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You and up to eight willing creatures who link 
hands in a circle are transported to a different plane 
of existence. You can specify a target destination in 
general terms, such as the City of Brass on the Ele- 
mental Plane of Fire or the palace of Dispater on the 
second level of the Nine Hells, and you appear in or 
near that destination, as determined by the DM. 

Alternatively, if you know the sigil sequence of a 
teleportation circle on another plane of existence, 
this spell can take you to that circle. If the telepor- 
tation circle is too small to hold all the creatures 
you transported, they appear in the closest unoccu- 
pied spaces next to the circle. 


Р MÀ —— M . не 


PLANT GROWTH 
Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action (Overgrowth) or 
8 hours (Enrichment) 
Range: 150 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


This spell channels vitality into plants. The casting 


time you use determines whether the spell has the . 


Overgrowth or the Enrichment effect below. 


Ee E a 


on that point become thick and overgrown. A crea- 
ture moving through that area must spend 4 feet of 
movement for every 1 foot it moves. You can exclude 
one or more areas of any size within the spell's area 


from being affected. : | 
Enrichment. All plants in a half-mile radius cen- 


tered on a point within range become enriched for 
365 days. The plants yield twice the normal amount 
of food when harvested. They can benefit from only 


one Plant Growth per year. 


POISON SPRAY 
Necromancy Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You spray toxic mist at a creature within range. 
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. Оп a 
hit, the target takes 1d12 Poison damage. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d12 
when you reach levels 5 (2d12), 11 (3d12), and 17 
(4d12). 


POLYMORPH 
Level 4 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a caterpillar cocoon) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You attempt to transform a creature that you can 
see within range into a Beast. The target must suc- 
ceed on a Wisdom saving throw or shape-shift into 
a Beast form for the duration. That form can be any 
Beast you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal 
to or less than the target's (or the target's level if 

it doesn't have a Challenge Rating). The target's 
game statistics are replaced by the stat block of the 
chosen Beast, but the target retains its alignment, 
personality, creature type, Hit Points, and Hit Point 
Dice. See appendix B for a sample of Beast stat 
blocks. 

The target gains a number of Temporary Hit 
Points equal to the Hit Points of the Beast form. The 
spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary 
Hit Points left. 

The target is limited in the actions it can perform 
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak 
or cast spells. 

The target's gear melds into the new form. The 
. creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of 


POWER WORD FORTIFY 

Level 7 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Component: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 

You fortify up to six creatures you can see within 
range. The spell bestows 120 Temporary Hit Points, 
which you divide among the spell's recipients. 


POWER WoRD HEAL 

Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Component: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 

A wave of healing energy washes over one creature 
you can see within range. The target regains all its 
Hit Points. If the creature has the Charmed, Fright- 
ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition, 
the condition ends. If the creature has the Prone 
condition, it can use its Reaction to stand up. 


POWER WorD KILL 
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Component: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You compel one creature you can see within range 
to die. If the target has 100 Hit Points or fewer, it 
dies. Otherwise, it takes 12d12 Psychic damage. 


POWER WorD STUN 
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You overwhelm the mind of one creature you can 
see within range. If the target has 150 Hit Points or 
fewer, it has the Stunned condition. Otherwise, its 
Speed is O until the start of your next turn. 

The Stunned target makes a Constitution saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
condition on itself on a success. 


MACKEY 


RANDALL 


PRAYER OF HEALING 
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Up to five creatures of your choice who remain 
within range for the spell's entire casting gain the 
benefits of a Short Rest and also regain 2d8 Hit 
Points. A creature can't be affected by this spell 
again until that creature finishes a Long Rest. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2. 


PRESTIDIGITATION 
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 


Range: 10 feet Д OWARF HAO AN UNFORTUNATE ENCOUNTER |] 
Components: VS WITH THE INDIGO RAY OF PRISMATIC SPRAY. { 
e V) { 

Duration: Up to 1 hour | 
‹ UM PRISMATIC RAYS { 

You create a magical effect within range. Choose d p 
the effect from the options below. If you cast this 1d8 Ray А 
spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its 1 Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful | 
non-instantaneous effects active at a time. Save: Half as much damage. pi 
Sensory Effect. You create an instantaneous, 2 Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Suc- | | 


harmless sensory effect, such as a shower of sparks, 


cessful Save: Half as much damage. 
a puff of wind, faint musical notes, or an odd odor. f Е 


Fire Play. You instantaneously light or snuff out a 3 Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. 
candle, a torch, or a small campfire. Successful Save: Half as much damage. 
Clean or Soil. You instantaneously clean or soil an 4 Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Suc- 1 
object no larger than 1 cubic foot. cessful Save: Half as much damage. | 
Minor Sensation. You chill, warm, or flavor up to 1 5 Blue. Failed Save: 1246 Cold damage. Success- | 


cubic foot of nonliving material for 1 hour. 


ful Save: Half as much damage. 
Magic Mark. You make a color, a small mark, or a 


6 Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Re- 


symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour. К $ SR | 
Minor Creation. You create а nonmagical trinket strained condition and makes a Constitution { 

or an illusory image that can fit in your hand. It saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If 

lasts until the end of your next turn. A trinket can it successfully saves three times, the condition 

deal no damage and has no monetary worth. ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified 


condition until it is freed by an effect like the 

Greater Restoration spell. The successes and 

failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of 1 
both until the target collects three of a kind. 

Casting Time: Action 7 Violet. Failed Save: The target has the Blinded 

Range: Self condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw | 
Components: V, 5 at the start of your next turn. On a successful 

Duration; instantaneous save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the 


PRISMATIC SPRAY 
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Eight rays of light flash from you in a 60-foot Cone. condition ends, and the creature teleports to 

Each creature in the Cone makes a Dexterity saving another plane of existence (DM's choice). 

throw. For each target, roll 1d8 to determine which 8 Special. The target is struck by two rays. Roll 

color ray affects it, consulting the Prismatic Rays twice, rerolling any 8 

table. j X 


ah tas e ola CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS oy 


=ч... 


. 308 


М: CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


PRISMATIC WALL 
Level 9 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 10 minutes 

A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms 

a vertical opaque wall—up to 90 feet long, 50 feet 
high, and 1 inch thick—centered on a point within 
range. Alternatively, you shape the wall into a globe 
up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point within 
range. The wall lasts for the duration. If you posi- 
tion the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the 
spell ends instantly without effect. 

The wall sheds Bright Light within 100 feet and 
Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and crea- 
tures you designate when you cast the spell can 
pass through and be near the wall without harm. If 
another creature that can see the wall moves within 
20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or 
have the Blinded condition for 1 minute. 

The wall consists of seven layers, each with a 
different color. When a creature reaches into or 
passes through the wall, it does so one layer at a 
time through all the layers. Each layer forces the 
creature to make a Dexterity saving throw or be af- 
fected by that layer's properties as described in the 
Prismatic Layers table. 

The wall, which has AC 10, can be destroyed one 
layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means 
specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed, it is 
gone for the duration. Antimagic Field has no effect 
on the wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the vio- 


let layer. 


PRODUCE FLAME 
Conjuration Cantrip (Druid) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: Self 

Components: V, S 
Duration: 10 minutes 


A flickering flame appears in your hand and remains 
there for the duration. While there, the flame emits 
no heat and ignites nothing, and it sheds Bright 
Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an addi- 
tional 20 feet. The spell ends if you cast it again. 

Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action 
to hurl fire at a creature or an object within 60 feet 
of you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the tar- 
get takes 1d8 Fire damage. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (248), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8). 


PRISMATIC LAYERS 


Order 


1 


Effects 
Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Success- 
ful Save: Half as much damage. Additional 
Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can't 
pass through this layer, which is destroyed if 
it takes at least 25 Cold damage. 
Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. 
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Ad- 
ditional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can't 
pass through this layer, which is destroyed 
by a strong wind (such as the one created by 
Gust of Wind). 
Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. 
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Addi- 
tional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes 
at least 60 Force damage. 
Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. 
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Ad- 
ditional Effects: A Passwall spell, or another 
spell of equal or greater level that can open a 
portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer. 
Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Suc- 
cessful Save: Half as much damage. Addi- 
tional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes 
at least 25 Fire damage. 
Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Re- 
strained condition and makes a Constitu- 
tion saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns. If it successfully saves three times, 
the condition ends. If it fails three times, it 
has the Petrified condition until it is freed by 
an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. 
The successes and failures needn't be con- 
secutive; keep track of both until the target 
collects three of a kind. Additional Effects: 
Spells can't be cast through this layer, which 
is destroyed by Bright Light shed by the Day- 
light spell. 
Violet. Failed Save: The target has the 
Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom sav- 
ing throw at the start of your next turn. On 
a successful save, the condition ends. On a 
failed save, the condition ends, and the crea- 
ture teleports to another plane of existence 
(DM's choice). Additional Effects: This layer 
is destroyed by Dispel Magic. 


JUSTINE CRUZ 


A SPELLCASTER COULD USE 
PROGRAMMED ILLUSION TO CAUSE A 
wATCHOOG TO APPEAR ANO KINDLY 


ASK INTRUDERS TO LEAVE. / А 
j 


PROGRAMMED ILLUSION 
Level 6 Illusion (Bard, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 25+ GP) 
Duration: Until dispelled 


You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or 
some other visible phenomenon within range that 
activates when a specific trigger occurs. The illusion 
is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger than 
a 30-foot Cube, and you decide when you cast the 
spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds it 
makes. This scripted performance can last up to 5 
minutes. 

When the trigger you specify occurs, the illusion 
springs into existence and performs in the manner 
you described. Once the illusion finishes perform- 
ing, it disappears and remains dormant for 10 min- 
utes, after which the illusion can be activated again. 

The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you 
like, though it must be based on visual or audible 
phenomena that occur within 30 feet of the area. 
For example, you could create an illusion of yourself 
to appear and warn off others who attempt to open 
a trapped door. 

Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be 
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature 
that takes the Study action to examine the image 
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful 
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell 
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what 
it is, the creature can see through the image, and 
any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature. 


ae ut oy p tat 
Sch - s. £ + AY, ON ir ж 


Bs d 

PROJECT IMAGE 

Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 500 miles 

Components: V, S, M (a statuette of yourself worth 
5+ GP) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day 


You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for 
the duration. The copy can appear at any location 
within range that you have seen before, regardless 
of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and 
sounds like you, but it is intangible. If the illusion 
takes any damage, it disappears, and the spell ends. 
You can see through the illusion’s eyes and hear 
through its ears as if you were in its space. As a 
Magic action, you can move it up to 60 feet and 
make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way 
you choose. It mimics your mannerisms perfectly. 
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be 
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature 
that takes the Study action to examine the image 
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful 
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell 
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what 
it is, the creature can see through the image, and 
any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature. 


PROTECTION FROM ENERGY 

Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


For the duration, the willing creature you touch has 
Resistance to one damage type of your choice: Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. 


PROTECTION FROM EVIL AND GOOD 

Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock, 

Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a flask of Holy Water worth 25+ 
GP, which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Concentration up to 10 minutes 


Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch 
is protected against creatures that are Aberrations, 
Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead. 

The protection grants several benefits. Creatures 
of those types have Disadvantage on attack rolls 


& 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


P" ud 


A numan CrtERIC casts Raise DEAD TO 
RETURN A FALLEN COMRADE TO LIFE 


against the target. The target also can't be pos- 


sessed by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condi- RAISE DEAD 
tions from them. If the target is already possessed, Level 5 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Paladin) 
Charmed, or Frightened by such a creature, the tar- t 4 
: ; Casting Time: 1 hour 
get has Advantage on any new saving throw against 
the relevant effect Range: Touch 
2 Components: V, S, М (a diamond worth 500+ СР, 


which the spell consumes) 


PROTECTION FROM POISON Duration: Instantaneous 


Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger) With a touch, you revive a dead creature if it has 
been dead no longer than 10 days and it wasn’t Un- 
dead when it died. 

The creature returns to life with 1 Hit Point. This 
spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected the 
creature at the time of death. 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 hour 


You touch аспеашге and end the Poisoned condi- This spell closes all mortal wounds, but it doesn't 
ORO MG For the duration, the target has Advan- restore missing body parts. If the creature is lacking 
tage on saving throws to avoid or end the Poisoned body parts or organs integral for its survival—its 
condition, and it has Resistance to Poison damage. head, for instance—the spell automatically fails. 


Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar- 
Но DRINK get takes a -4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the 
Level 1 Т ion (Cleric, Druid, Paladi target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced 
evel 1 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin) by 1 until it becomes 0. 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 
Range: 10 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You remove poison and rot from nonmagical food 
and drink in a 5-foot-radius Sphere centered on a 
point within range. 


POLAR ENGIN 


310 } CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS «ВЕ iat бз 
> 5 ee a эй ” ^d "n à e oda i 


RARY'S TELEPATHIC BOND 
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action or Ritual 
Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (two eggs) 
Duration: 1 hour 


You forge a telepathic link among up to eight willing 
creatures of your choice within range, psychically 
linking each creature to all the others for the dura- 
tion. Creatures that can't communicate in any lan- 
guages aren't affected by this spell. 

Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate 
telepathically through the bond whether or not they 
share a language. The communication is possible 
over any distance, though it can't extend to other 
planes of existence. 


RAY OF ENFEEBLEMENT 

Level 2 Necromancy (Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A beam of enervating energy shoots from you 
toward a creature within range. The target must 
make a Constitution saving throw. On a successful 
save, the target has Disadvantage on the next attack 
roll it makes until the start of your next turn. 

On a failed save, the target has Disadvantage on 
Strength-based D20 Tests for the duration. During 
that time, it also subtracts 1d8 from all its damage 
rolls. The target repeats the save at the end of each 
of its turns, ending the spell on a success. 


RAY OF FROST 
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a 
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack 
against the target. On a hit, it takes 148 Cold dam- 
age, and its Speed is reduced by 10 feet until the 
start of your next turn. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (248), 11 (348), and 17 (448). 


Р 


КАҮ ОЕ SICKNEsS 

Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You shoot a greenish ray at a creature within range. 
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a 
hit, the target takes 2d8 Poison damage and has the 
Poisoned condition until the end of your next turn. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1. 


REGENERATE 

Level 7 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid) 
Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Touch 


Components: V, S, M (a prayer wheel) 
Duration: 1 hour 


A creature you touch regains 4d8 + 15 Hit Points. 
For the duration, the target regains 1 Hit Point at 
the start of each of its turns, and any severed body 
parts regrow after 2 minutes. 


REINCARNATE 

Level 5 Necromancy (Druid) 

Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (rare oils worth 1,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch a dead Humanoid or a piece of one. If 
the creature has been dead no longer than 10 days, 
the spell forms a new body for it and calls the soul 
to enter that body. Roll 1d10 and consult the table 
below to determine the body's species, or the DM 
chooses another playable species. 


1d10 Species 1d10 Species 
1 Aasimar 6 Goliath 
2 Огаропбогп 7 Halfling 
3 Dwarf 8 Human 
4 Elf 9 Orc 
5 Gnome l0 Тіейіпр 


The reincarnated creature makes any choices that 
a species’ description offers, and the creature recalls 


its former life. It retains the capabilities it had in its 


original form, except it loses the traits of its previ- X 


ous species and gains the traits of its new one. 


REMOVE CURSE | 
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 

At your touch, all curses affecting one creature 
or object end. If the object is a cursed magic item, 
its curse remains, but the spell breaks its owner's 
Attunement to the object so it can be removed or 
discarded. 


RESISTANCE 
Abjuration Cantrip (Cleric, Druid) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Component: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

You touch a willing creature and choose a damage 
type: Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Ne- 
crotic, Piercing, Poison, Radiant, Slashing, or Thun- 
der. When the creature takes damage of the chosen 
type before the spell ends, the creature reduces the 
total damage taken by 1d4. A creature can benefit 
from this spell only once per turn. 


RESURRECTION 
Level 7 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric) 


Casting Time: 1 hour 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP, 


which the spell consumes) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


With a touch, you revive a dead creature that has 
been dead for no more than a century, didn't die of 
old age, and wasn't Undead when it died. 


The creature returns to life with all its Hit Points. 


This spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected 
the creature at the time of death. This spell closes 
all mortal wounds and restores any missing body 
parts. 

Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar- 
get takes a -4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the 
target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced 
by 1 until it becomes 0. 

Casting this spell to revive a creature that has 
been dead for 365 days or longer taxes you. Until 
you finish a Long Rest, you can't cast spells again, 
and you have Disadvantage on D20 Tests. 


REVERSE GRAVITY 
Level 7 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: 100 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and iron filings) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

This spell reverses gravity in a 5O-foot-radius, 100- 
foot high Cylinder centered on a point within range. 
All creatures and objects in that area that aren't 
anchored to the ground fall upward and reach the 
top of the Cylinder. A creature can make a Dexter- 
ity saving throw to grab a fixed object it can reach, 


thus avoiding the fall upward. 
If a ceiling or an anchored object is encountered 


in this upward fall, creatures and objects strike it 
just as they would during a downward fall. If an af- 
fected creature or object reaches the Cylinder’s top 
without striking anything, it hovers there for the 
duration. When the spell ends, affected objects and 
creatures fall downward. 


REVIVIFY 
Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 300+ GP, 


which the spell consumes) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch a creature that has died within the last 
minute. That creature revives with 1 Hit Point. This 
spell can’t revive a creature that has died of old age, 
nor does it restore any missing body parts. 


КОРЕ TRICK 
Level 2 Transmutation (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a segment of rope) 
Duration: 1 hour 


You touch a rope. One end of it hovers upward until 
the rope hangs perpendicular to the ground or the 
rope reaches a ceiling. At the rope's upper end, an 
Invisible 3-foot-by-5-foot porta] opens to an extra- 
dimensional space that lasts until the spell ends. 
That space can be reached by climbing the rope, 
which can be pulled into or dropped out of it. 

The space can hold up to eight Medium or smaller 
creatures. Attacks, spells, and other effects can't 
pass into or out of the space, but creatures inside 
it can see through the portal. Anything inside the 
space drops out when the speil eris. 


SACRED FLAME 
Evocation Cantrip (Cleric) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you 
can see within range. The target must succeed on 
a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d8 Radiant dam- 
age. The target gains no benefit from Half Cover or 
Three-Quarters Cover for this save. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (248), 11 (3d8), and 17 (448). 


SANCTUARY 
Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass from a mirror) 
Duration: 1 minute 


You ward a creature within range. Until the spell 
ends, any creature who targets the warded creature 
with an attack roll or a damaging spell must succeed 
on a Wisdom saving throw or either choose a new 
target or lose the attack or spell. This spell doesn't 
protect the warded creature from areas of effect. 
The spell ends it the warded creature makes an at- 
tack roll, casts 2 spell, or deals damage. 


THE SCRYING SPELL HELPS A GNOME BARO KEEP IN TOUCH 
WITH FRIENOS ANO FAMILY AROUND THE WORLO 


SCORCHING Ray 

Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You hurl three fiery rays. You can hurl them at one 
target within range or at several. Make a ranged 
spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes 
2d6 Fire damage. 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create one ad- 
ditional ray for each spell slot level above 2. 


SCRYING 

Level 5 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Warlock, 

Wizard) 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 1,000+ GP, such 
as a crystal ball, mirror, or water-filled font) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You can see and hear a creature you choose that is 
on the same plane of existence as you. The target 
makes a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified 
(see the tables below) by how well you know the 
target and the sort of physical connection you have 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


{ ООо 


ИТТ 


ДЕ. 


to it. The target doesn't know what it is making the 
save against, only that it feels uneasy. 


Your Knowledge of the Target Is ... Save Modifier 


Secondhand (heard of the target) +5 
Firsthand (met the target) +0 
-5 


Extensive (know the target well) 


You Have the Target's ... Save Modifier 


Picture or other likeness -2 
Garment or other possession -4 
Body part, lock of hair, or bit of nail -10 


On a successful save, the target isn't affected, and 
you can't use this spell on it again for 24 hours. 

On a failed save, the spell creates an Invisible, 
intangible sensor within 10 feet of the target. You 
can see and hear through the sensor as if you were 
there. The sensor moves with the target, remaining 
within 10 feet of it for the duration. If something 
can see the sensor, it appears as a luminous orb 
about the size of your fist. 

Instead of targeting a creature, you can target a 
location you have seen. When you do so, the sensor 
appears at that location and doesn't move. 


SEARING SMITE 

Level 1 Evocation (Paladin) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 

Range: Self 

Component: V 

Duration: 1 minute 


As you hit the target, it takes an extra 146 Fire dam- 
age from the attack. At the start of each of its turns 
until the spell ends, the target takes 1d6 Fire dam- 
age and then makes a Constitution saving throw. 
On a failed save, the spell continues. On a successful 
save, the spell ends. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. All the damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


SEE INVISIBILITY 
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of talc) 
Duration: 1 hour 


For the duration, you see creatures and objects that 


have the Invisible condition as if they were visible, 
and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Creatures 


and objects there appear ghostly. 


SEEMING 

Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 8 hours 

You give an illusory appearance to each creature of 
your choice that you can see within range. An un- 
willing target can make a Charisma saving throw, 
and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by this spell. 

You can give the same appearance or different 
ones to the targets. The spell can change the ap- 
pearance of the targets' bodies and equipment. You 
can make each creature seem 1 foot shorter or taller 
and appear heavier or lighter. A target's new ap- 
pearance must have the same basic arrangement of 
limbs as the target, but the extent of the illusion is 
otherwise up to you. The spell lasts for the duration. 

The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up 
to physical inspection. For example, if you use this 
spell to add a hat to a creature's outfit, objects pass 
through the hat. 

A creature that takes the Study action to examine 
a target can make an Intelligence (Investigation) 
check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it 
becomes aware that the target is disguised. 


SENDING 
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Unlimited 

Components: V, S, M (a copper wire) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You send a short message of 25 words or fewer to 
a creature you have met or a creature described to 
you by someone who has met it. The target hears 
the message in its mind, recognizes you as the 
sender if it knows you, and can answer in a like 
manner immediately. The spell enables targets to 
understand the meaning of your message. 

You can send the message across any distance and 
even to other planes of existence, but if the target 
is on a different plane than you, there is a 5 percent 
chance that the message doesn't arrive. You know if 
the delivery fails. 

Upon receiving your message, a creature can 
block your ability to reach it again with this spell 
for 8 hours. If you try to send another message 
during that time, you learn that you are blocked, 
and the spell fails. 


7 
R'ivAL MAGES USE SHAPECHANGE TO TRANSFORM INTO 
A BEHOLDER AND A BEHIR DURING A MAGICAL DUEL 


-— 
295... EN 


Ў 


SEQUESTER 
Level 7 Transmutation (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (gem dust worth 5,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Until dispelled 


With a touch, you magically sequester an object or a 
willing creature. For the duration, the target has the 
Invisible condition and can't be targeted by Divina- 
tion spells, detected by magic, or viewed remotely 
with magic. 

If the target is a creature, it enters a state of sus- 
pended animation; it has the Unconscious condition, 
doesn't age, and doesn't need food, water, or air. 

You can set a condition for the spell to end early. 
The condition can be anything you choose, but it 
must occur or be visible within 1 mile of the target. 
Examples include "after 1,000 years" or ^when the 
tarrasque awakens." This spell also ends if the tar- 
get takes any damage. 


SHAPECHANGE 

Level 9 Transmutation (Druid, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a jade circlet worth 1,500+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You shape-shift into another creature for the dura- 
tion or until you take a Magic action to shape-shift 
into a different eligible form. The new form must be 
of a creature that has a Challenge Rating no higher 
than your level or Challenge Rating. You must have 
seen the sort of creature before, and it can't be a 
Construct or an Undead. 

When you shape-shift, you gain a number of 
Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the 
form. The spell ends early if you have no Temporary 
Hit Points left. 

Your game statistics are replaced by the stat block 
of the chosen form, but you retain your creature 
type; alignment; personality; Intelligence, Wisdom, 
and Charisma scores; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; 
proficiencies; and ability to communicate. If you 
have the Spellcasting feature, you retain it too. 

Upon shape-shifting, you determine whether your — 
equipment drops to the ground or changes in size 
and shape to fit the new form while you're in it. 


SHATTER 
Level 2 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a chip of mica) 
Duration: Instantaneous 
A loud noise erupts from a point of your choice 
within range. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius 
Sphere centered there makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 3d8 Thunder damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. A Con- 
struct has Disadvantage on the save. 
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or car- 
ried also takes the damage if it's in the spell's area. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2. 


SHIELD 
Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you are 
hit by an attack roll or targeted by the Magic Missile 
spell 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 1 round 

An imperceptible barrier of magical force protects 

you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5 

bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack, 
and you take no damage from Magic Missile. 


SHIELD OF FAITH 

Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


A shimmering field surrounds a creature of your 
choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC 
for the duration. 


SHILLELAGH 
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (mistletoe) 
Duration: 1 minute 


A Club or Quarterstaff you are holding is imbued 
with nature's power. For the duration, you can use 
your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the 
attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that 


ENS a 
| EJ - 
EN —— PHAPTER 7 | SPEIIS 


weapon, and the weapon’s damage die becornes a d8. 

If the attack deals damage, it can be Force damage 

or the weapon’s normal damage type (your choice). 
The spell ends early if you cast it again or if you 


let go of the weapon. 
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage die changes when 


you reach levels 5 (d10), 11 (d12), and 17 (2d6). 


SHINING SMITE 

Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 

Range: Self 

Component: V 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

The target hit by the strike takes an extra 2d6 Radi- 

ant damage from the attack. Until the spell ends, the 

target sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot radius, attack 
rolls against it have Advantage, and it can’t benefit 


from the Invisible condition. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2. 


SHOCKING GRASP 
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Touch 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Lightning springs from you to a creature that you 
try to touch. Make a melee spell attack against the 
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 Lightning dam- 
age, and it can't make Opportunity Attacks until the 
start of its next turn. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (248), 11 (548), and 17 (448). 


SILENCE 
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Cleric, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


For the duration, no sound can be created within 

or pass through a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered 
on a point you choose within range. Any creature 
or object entirely inside the Sphere has Immunity 
to Thunder damage, and creatures have the Deaf- 
ened condition while entirely inside it. Casting a 
spell that includes a Verbal component is impossible 
there. 


SiLENT IMAGE CAN 
CONCOCT ILLUSIONS 
ОЕ THE MUNDANE 

ANO THE WHIMSICAL 


SILENT IMAGE 
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You create the image of an object, a creature, or 
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger 
than a 15-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot 
within range and lasts for the duration. The image is 
purely visual; it isn't accompanied by sound, smell, 
or other sensory effects. 

As a Magic action, you can cause the image 
to move to any spot within range. As the image 
changes location, you can alter its appearance so 
that its movements appear natural for the image. 
For example, if you create an image of a creature 
and move it, you can alter the image so that it ap- 
pears to be walking. 

Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be 
an illusion, since things can pass through it. A crea- 
ture that takes a Study action to examine the image 
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful 
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell 
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what 
it is, the creature can see through the image. 


SIMULACRUM 
Level 7 Illusion (Wizard) 


Casting Time: 12 hours 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (powdered ruby worth 1,500 
GP, which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Until dispelled 


You create a simulacrum of one Beast or Humanoid 
that is within 10 feet of you for the entire casting 
of the spell. You finish the casting by touching both 


the creature and a pile of ice or snow that is the 
same size as that creature, and the pile turns into 
the simulacrum, which is a creature. It uses the 
game statistics of the original creature at the time 
of casting, except it is a Construct, its Hit Point 
maximum is half as much, and it can't cast this spell. 

The simulacrum is Friendly to you and creatures 
you designate. It obeys your commands and acts on 
your turn in combat. The simulacrum can't gain lev- 
els, and it can't take Short or Long Rests. 

If the simulacrum takes damage, the only way 
to restore its Hit Points is to repair it as you take a 
Long Rest, during which you expend components 
worth 100 GP per Hit Point restored. The simula- 
crum must stay within 5 feet of you for the repair. 

The simulacrum lasts until it drops to О Hit 
Points, at which point it reverts to snow and melts 
away. If you cast this spell again, any simulacrum 
you created with this spell is instantly destroyed. 


SLEEP 

Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 


Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sand or rose petals) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Each creature of your choice in a 5-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on a point within range must suc- 
ceed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Inca- 
pacitated condition until the end of its next turn, 
at which point it must repeat the save. If the target 
fails the second save, the target has the Unconscious 
condition for the duration. The spell ends on a tar- 
get if it takes damage or someone within 5 feet of it 
takes an action to shake it out of the spell’s effect. 
Creatures that don't sleep, such as elves, or that 
have Immunity to the Exhaustion condition auto- 
matically succeed on saves against this spell. 


SLEET STORM 
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a miniature umbrella) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


Until the spell ends, sleet falls in a 40-foot-tall, 
20-foot-radius Cylinder centered on a point you 
choose within range. The area is Heavily Obscured, 
and exposed flames in the area are doused. 

Ground in the Cylinder is Difficult Terrain. When 
a creature enters the Cylinder for the first time on 
a turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a 
Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition 
and lose Concentration. 


ere АЛ CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


A Human Druid USES SPEAK 
WITH ANIMALS TO CHAT WITH 
HIS BEST BEAR FRIEND. 


SLOW 


Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of molasses) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 

You alter time around up to six creatures of your 
choice in a 40-foot Cube within range. Each target 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be af- 
fected by this spell for the duration. 

An affected target's Speed is halved, it takes a -2 
penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it 
can't take Reactions. On its turns, it can take either 
an action or a Bonus Action, not both, and it can 
make only one attack if it takes the Attack action. 
If it casts a spell with a Somatic component, there is 
a 25 percent chance the spell fails as a result of the 
target making the spell’s gestures too slowly. 

An affected target repeats the save at the end 
of each of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a 
success. 


SORCEROUS BURST 
Cantrip Evocation (Sorcerer) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Component: V, S 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You cast sorcerous energy at one creature or object 
within range. Make a ranged attack roll against the 
target. Ona hit, the target takes 1d8 damage of a 
type you choose: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, 
Psychic, or Thunder. 

If you roll an 8 on a d8 for this spell, you can roll 
another d8, and add it to the damage. When you 
cast this spell, the maximum number of these d8s 
you can add to the spell's damage equals your spell- 
casting ability modifier. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (248), 11 (548), and 17 (448). 


SPARE THE DYING 
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 15 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Choose a creature within range that has O Hit 
Points and isn't dead. The creature becomes Stable. 
Cantrip Upgrade. The range doubles when you 


reach levels 5 (50 feet), 11 (60 feet), and 17 (120 feet). 


SPEAK WITH ANIMALS 
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger, Warlock) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 
Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: 10 minutes 


For the duration, you can comprehend and verbally 
communicate with Beasts, and you can use any of 
the Influence action's skill options with them. 

Most Beasts have little to say about topics that 
don't pertain to survival or companionship, but at 
minimum, a Beast can give you information about 
nearby locations and monsters, including whatever 
it has perceived within the past day. 


SPEAK WITH DEAD 
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: V, S, M (burning incense) 
Duration: 10 minutes 


You grant the semblance of life to a corpse of your 
choice within range, allowing it to answer ques- 
tions you pose. The corpse must have a mouth, and 
this spell fails if the deceased creature was Undead 
when it died. The spell also fails if the corpse was 
the target of this spell within the past 10 days. 


JESPER EJSING 


Until the speli ends, you can ask the corpse up to 
five questions. The corpse knows only what it knew 
in life, including the languages it knew. Answers are 
usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, and the corpse 
is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if 
you are antagonistic toward it or it recognizes you 
as an enemy. This spell doesn't return the creature's 
soul to its body, only its animating spirit. Thus, the 
corpse can't learn new information, doesn't compre- 
hend anything that has happened since it died, and 
can't speculate about future events. 


SPEAK WITH PLANTS 
Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: VS 
Duration: 10 minutes 


You imbue plants in an immobile 30-foot Emana- 
tion with limited sentience and animation, giving 
them the ability to communicate with you and fol- 
low your simple commands. You can question plants 
about events in the spell's area within the past day, 
gaining information about creatures that have 
passed, weather, and other circumstances. 

You can also turn Difficult Terrain caused by plant 
growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into 
ordinary terrain that lasts for the duration. Or you 
can turn ordinary terrain where plants are present 
into Difficult Terrain that lasts for the duration. 

The spell doesn't enable plants to uproot them- 
selves and move about, but they can move their 
branches, tendrils, and stalks for you. 

If a Plant creature is in the area, you can commu- 
nicate with it as if you shared a common language. 


SPIDER CLIMB 
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of bitumen and a spider) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch 
gains the ability to move up, down, and across 
vertical surfaces and along ceilings, while leaving 
its hands free. The target also gains a Climb Speed 
equal to its Speed. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level about 2. 


Cr Á— —— 


SPIKE GROwTH 

Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (seven thorns) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


The ground in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered 

on a point within range sprouts hard spikes and 
thorns. The area becomes Difficult Terrain for the 
duration. When a creature moves into or within the 


area, it takes 2d4 Piercing damage for every 5 feet 
it travels. 


The transformation of the ground is camouflaged 
to look natural. Any creature that can't see the area 
when the spell is cast must take a Search action 
and succeed on a Wisdom (Perception or Survival) 
check against your spell save DC to recognize the 
terrain as hazardous before entering it. 


SPIRIT GUARDIANS 

Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


Protective spirits flit around you in a 15-foot Ema- 
nation for the duration. If you are good or neutral, 
their spectral form appears angelic or fey (your 
choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish. 

When you cast this spell, you can designate crea- 
tures to be unaffected by it. Any other creature's 
Speed is halved in the Emanation, and whenever the 
Emanation enters a creature's space and whenever 
a creature enters the Emanation or ends its turn 
there, the creature must make a Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 Ra- 
diant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8 
Necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful 
save, the creature takes half as much damage. A 
creature makes this save only once per turn. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3. 


SPIRITUAL WEAPON 
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You create a floating, spectral force that resembles 
a weapon of your choice and lasts for the duration. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


E 


аа 


The force appears within range in a space of your 
choice, and you can immediately make one melee 
spell attack against one creature within 5 feet of the 
force. On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal 
to 1d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. 

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can 
move the force up to 20 feet and repeat the attack 
against a creature within 5 feet of it. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for every slot level above 2. 


STAGGERING SMITE 

Level 4 Enchantment (Paladin) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 

Range: Self 

Component: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


The target takes an extra 4d6 Psychic damage from 
the attack, and the target must succeed on a Wis- 
dom saving throw or have the Stunned condition 
until the end of your next turn. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The extra damage 
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 4. 


CHAPTER 7 Í| SPELLS 


y Ee mv 
DES ER 
E 2 _ A.cotiATH CLERIC casts SPIRITUAL 
"WEAPON IN BATTLE WITH AN UMBER HULK 
TES s a n 
H^ & 


STARRY WISP 
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You launch a mote of light at one creature or object 
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against 
the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 Radiant 
damage, and until the end of your next turn, it emits 
Dim Light in a 10-foot radius and can't benefit from 
the Invisible condition. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (248), 11 (548), and 17 (448). 


STEEL WIND STRIKE 

Level 5 Conjuration (Ranger, Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: 5, M (a Melee weapon worth 1+ SP) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You flourish the weapon used in the casting and 
then vanish to strike like the wind. Choose up to 
five creatures you can see within range. Make a 


melee spell attack against each target. On a hit, a 
target takes 6d10 Force damage. | 

You then teleport to an unoccupied space you can 
see within 5 feet of one of the targets. 


SrINKING CLOUD 

Level 3 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, 5, M (a rotten egg) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow, nau- 
seating gas centered on a point within range. The 
cloud is Heavily Obscured. The cloud lingers in the 
air for the duration or until a strong wind (such as 
the one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it. 

Each creature that starts its turn in the Sphere 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or 
have the Poisoned condition until the end of the 
current turn. While Poisoned in this way, the crea- 
ture can't take an action or a Bonus Action. 


STONE SHAPE 
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (soft clay) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller 
or a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any di- 
mension and form it into any shape you like. For ex- 
ample, you could shape a large rock into a weapon, 
statue, or coffer, or you could make a small passage 
through a wall that is 5 feet thick. You could also 


shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut. 


The object you create can have up to two hinges 


and a latch, but finer mechanical detail isn't possible. 


STONESKIN 


Level 4 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100-- GP, 
which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch 
has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slash- 
ing damage. 


STORM OF VENGEANCE 

Level 9 Conjuration (Druid) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: 1 mile 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A churning storm cloud forms for the duration, 
centered on a point within range and spreading to 
a radius of 300 feet. Each creature under the cloud 
when it appears must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw or take 2d6 Thunder damage and have 
the Deafened condition for the duration. 


At the start of each of your later turns, the storm 
produces different effects, as detailed below. 

Turn 2. Acidic rain falls. Each creature and object 
under the cloud takes 4d6 Acid damage. 

Turn 3. You call six bolts of lightning from the 
cloud to strike six different creatures or objects 
beneath it. Each target makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 10d6 Lightning damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. 

Turn 4. Hailstones rain down. Each creature un- 
der the cloud takes 2d6 Bludgeoning damage. 

Turns 5-10. Gusts and freezing rain assail the area 
under the cloud. Each creature there takes 1d6 Cold 
damage. Until the spell ends, the area is Difficult 
Terrain and Heavily Obscured, ranged attacks with 
weapons are impossible there, and strong wind 
blows through the area. 


SUGGESTION 

Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, M (a drop of honey) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours 


You suggest a course of activity—described in no 
more than 25 words—to one creature you can see 
within range that can hear and understand you. The | 
suggestion must sound achievable and not involve 
anything that would obviously deal damage to the 
target or it allies. For example, you could say, "Fetch 
the key to the cult's treasure vault, and give the key 
to me." Or you could say, "Stop fighting, leave this 
library peacefully, and don't return." 

The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura- 
tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the 
target. The Charmed target pursues the suggestion i 
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can ү: 
continue for the entire duration, but if the sug- | 
gested activity can be completed in a shorter time, | 
the spell ends for the target upon completing it. 


1 
CHAPTER7|SPELLS ; 9321 | 


ABERRANT Spirit (BEHOLDERKIN) 


SUMMON ABERRATION 
Level 4 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a pickled tentacle and an eye- 
ball in a platinum-inlaid vial worth 400+ GP) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth an aberrant spirit. It manifests in an 
unoccupied space that you can see within range and 
uses the Aberrant Spirit stat block. When you cast 
the spell, choose Beholderkin, Mind Flayer, or Slaad. 
The creature resembles an Aberration of that kind, 
which determines certain details in its stat block. 
The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit 
Points or when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, it shares your Initiative count, but it takes 
its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your ver- 
bal commands (no action required by you). If you 
don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses 
its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


SUMMON BEAST 
Level 2 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a feather, tuft of fur, and fish 
tail inside a gilded acorn worth 200+ GP) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth a bestial spirit. It manifests in an 
unoccupied space that you can see within range 
and uses the Bestial Spirit stat block. When you 
cast the spell, choose an environment: Air, Land, or 


999 X CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


= => = — EY 

ABERRANT SPIRIT 
Medium Aberration, Neutral oce 
AC 11 + the spell's level 
HP 40 + 10 for each spell level above 4 
Speed 30 ft.; Fly 30 ft. (hover; Beholderkin only) 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 16 +3 +3 Dex10 +0 +0 Сом15 +2 42 


INT 16 +3 +3 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA б -2 _2 


Immunities Psychic 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 
Languages Deep Speech, understands the languages 


you know 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


TRAITS 
SUS = == сє = _ 
Regeneration (Slaad Only). The spirit regains 5 


Hit Points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 

Hit Point. 

Whispering Aura (Mind Flayer Only). At the start of 
each of the spirit's turns, the spirit emits psionic energy 
if it doesn't have the Incapacitated condition. Wisdom 
Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each crea- 
ture (other than you) within 5 feet of the spirit. Failure: 
2d6 Psychic damage. 


Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks 
equal to half this spell's level (round down). 


Claw (Slaad Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals 
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d10 + 3 + the 
spell's level Slashing damage, and the target can't re- 
gain Hit Points until the start of the spirit's next turn. 


Eye Ray (Beholderkin Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus 
equals your spell attack modifier, range 150 ft. Hit: 1d8 
+ 3 + the spell’s level Psychic damage. 


Psychic Slam (Mind Flayer Only). Melee Attack Roll: 
Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 


ACTIONS | 
22102. ——ÓÁÁ————— Áá— 


| 
| 


148 + 3 + the spell's level Psychic damage. 


ЕЕЕ 


Water. The creature resembles an animal of your 
choice that is native to the chosen environment, 
which determines certain details in its stat block. 
The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit 
Points or when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


SUMMON CELESTIAL 
Level 5 Conjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet | 

Components: V, S, M (a reliquary worth 500+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 СЙ. 


You call forth a Celestial spirit. It manifests in ап 
angelic form in an unoccupied space that you can 
see within range and uses the Celestial Spirit stat 
block. When you cast the spell, choose Avenger or 
Defender. Your choice determines certain details in 
its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops 
to 0 Hit Points or when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


Cevestiat Spirit 
(AvENGER) 


Р —— = (= = 
BESTIAL SPIRIT CELESTIAL SPIRIT | 
————— ee ee 
| Small Beast, Neutral Large Celestial, Neutral 
AC 11 + the spell’s level AC 11 + the spell's level + 2 (Defender only) 
| HP 20 (Air only) or 30 (Land and Water only) + 5 for HP 40 « 10 for each spell level above 5 
each spell level above 2 Speed 30 ft., Fly 40 ft. 
Speed 30 ft.; Climb 30 ft. (Land only); Fly 60 ft. (Air MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE |. 
only); Swim 30 ft. (Water only) STR 16 43 +3 Dex M +2 42 Сом16 +3 +3 
| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE INT 10 40 +0 Wis 14 2 +2 C 
Str 18 +4 +4 Dex 11 +0 +0 Сом16 +3 +3 t НАТО 
Int 4 -3 -3 Wis 14 42 +2 CHA 5 -3 -3 | | Resistances Radiant 
Immunities Charmed, Frightened 
| Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 
| Languages understands the languages you know Languages Celestial, understands the languages you 
| CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) know 
| CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 
| TRAITS 


| Flyby (Air Only). The spirit doesn't provoke Opportu- 

| nity Attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach. 

Pack Tactics (Land and Water Only). The spirit has 
Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least 
one of the spirit's allies is within 5 feet of the creature 
and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition. 


| 
Water Breathing (Water Only). The spirit can breathe | 
only underwater. 


ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Rend at- 
tacks equal to ha!f this spell's level (round down). 


Rend. Melee Atta.‘ Roll: Bonus equals your spell at- 
tack modifier, reaca 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 + 4 + the spell's level 
Piercing damage. 


BULLE 


(x 


ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks 
equal to half this spell's level (round down). 


Radiant Bow (Avenger Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus | 
equals your spell attack modifier, range 600 ft. Hit: 206 | 
+ 2 + the spell's level Radiant damage. 


Radiant Mace (Defender Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bo- 
nus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 
1d10 + 3 + the spell's level Radiant damage, and the 
spirit can choose itself or another creature it can see 
within 10 feet of the target. The chosen creature gains 
1d10 Temporary Hit Points. 


Healing Touch (1/Day). The spirit touches another crea- | 
ture. The target regains Hit Points equal to 2d8 + the 
spell's level. 


PLAN 


SUMMON CONSTRUCT 
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a lockbox worth 400+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth the spirit of a Construct. It manifests 
in an unoccupied space that you can see within 
range and uses the Construct Spirit stat block. 
When you cast the spell, choose a material: Clay, 
Metal, or Stone. The creature resembles an animate 
statue (you determine the appearance) made of the 
chosen material, which determines certain details in 
its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops 
to O Hit Points or when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


SUMMON DRAGON 
Level 5 Conjuration (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (an object with the image of a 
dragon engraved on it worth 500+ GP) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth a Dragon spirit. It manifests in an 
unoccupied space that you can see within range and 
uses the Draconic Spirit stat block. The creature 
disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when 
the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


: 
CONSTRUCT SPIRIT 


Medium Construct, Neutral 


AC 13 + the spell's level 
HP 40 + 15 for each spell level above 4 


Speed 30 ft. 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 18 +4 +4 Dex10 +0 +0 Con 18 +4 +4 | 
INT 14 +2 42 Wis 11 +0 +0 CHA 5 -3 -3 


Resistances Poison 

Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, 
Paralyzed, Poisoned 

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 | 

Languages Understands the languages you know | 

CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) | 


TRAITS 


Heated Body (Metal Only). A creature that hits the | 
spirit with a melee attack or that starts its turn in a 
grapple with the spirit takes 1d10 Fire damage. 


Stony Lethargy (Stone Only). When a creature starts 
its turn within 10 feet of the spirit, the spirit can target 
| it with magical energy if the spirit can see it. Wisdom 
Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, the target. 
Failure: Until the start of its next turn, the target can't 
make Opportunity Attacks, and its Speed is halved. 


| ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Slam attacks 
equal to half this spell's level (round down). 


Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 + 4 + the spell's level Blud- 
geoning damage. 


REACTIONS sie NEM i 55: 
Berserk Lashing (Clay Only). Trigger: The spirit takes 

damage from a creature. Response: The spirit makes 

a Slam attack against that creature if possible, or the 

spirit moves up to half its Speed toward that creature é 
without provoking Opportunity Attacks. 


Draconic Spirit 
(Coto) 


| DRACONIC SPIRIT 


Large Dragon, Neutral 


| AC 14 4 the spell's level 

| HP 50 + 10 for each spell level above 5 

| Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft. 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| Sra 19 +4 +4 Dex 14 +2 +2 Сом17 +3 +3 
INT 10 +0 +0 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHAM 110212) 


Resistances Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison 
Immunities Charmed, Frightened, Poisoned 

! Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 60 ft., 

| Passive Perception 12 

| Languages Draconic, understands the languages you 
| know 

i CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


TRAITS 


Shared Resistances. When you summon the spirit, 
choose one of its Resistances. You have Resistance to 
the chosen damage type until the spell ends. 


— one 


ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Rend at- 
tacks equal to half the spell's level (round down), and it 
uses Breath Weapon. 


Rend. Melee Attack: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 10 feet. Hit: 146 + 4 + the spell's level 
Piercing damage. 


Breath Weapon. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC equals your 


{ spell save DC, each creature in a 30-foot Cone. Failure: 

; 2d6 damage of a type this spirit has Resistance to (your 

© | choice when you cast the spell). Success: Half damage. 
ОТИ 


SUMMON ELEMENTAL 

Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 90 feet 

Components: V, S, M (air, a pebble, ash, and water 


inside a gold-inlaid vial worth 400-- GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth an Elemental spirit. It manifests in an 

unoccupied space that you can see within range and 

uses the Elemental Spirit stat block. When you cast 
the spell, choose an element: Air, Earth, Fire, or Wa- 
ter. The creature resembles a bipedal form wreathed 
in the chosen element, which determines certain de- 
tails in its stat block. The creature disappears when 
it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 

3 
| ELEMENTAL SPIRIT 1 


Medium Elemental, Neutral 


AC 11 + the spell's level 
HP 50 + 10 for each spell level above 4 
Speed 40 ft.; Burrow 40 ft. (Earth only); Fly 40 ft. 
(hover; Air only); Swim 40 ft. (Water only) 
MOD SAVE MOO SAVE MOD SAVE 


Str 18 +4 +4 Dex15 +2 +2 Сом17 +3 +3 
Int 4 -3 -3 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA 16 + +3 


| 


Resistances Acid (Water only), Lightning and Thunder | 

(Air only), Piercing and Slashing (Earth only) 
Immunities Fire (Fire only), Poison; Exhaustion, 

| Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned 

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 

Languages Primordial, understands the languages you 
know 


CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


TRAITS 


a aaee 


| Amorphous Form (Air, Fire, and Water Only). The spirit 
can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide 
without it counting as Difficult Terrain. 


| ACTIONS 


pia 


| Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Slam attacks 
equal to half this spell's level (round down). 


| Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack | 
modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d10 + 4 + the spell's level 
Bludgeoning (Earth only), Cold (Water only), Lightning 
(Air only), or Fire (Fire only) damage. 


GL S NEATIS SPELLS 
quarter 7 sreuis {з 


SUMMON FEY 
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 


Range: 90 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a gilded flower worth 300+ GP) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth a Fey spirit. It manifests in an unoc- 
cupied space that you can see within range and uses 
the Fey Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, 
choose a mood: Fuming, Mirthful, or Tricksy. The 
creature resembles a Fey creature of your choice 
marked by the chosen mood, which determines cer- 
tain details in its stat block. The creature disappears 
when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


SUMMON FIEND 
Level 6 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 90 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a bloody vial worth 600+ GP) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth a fiendish spirit. It manifests in an 
unoccupied space that you can see within range 
and uses the Fiendish Spirit stat block. When you 
cast the spell, choose Demon, Devil, or Yugoloth. 


ER 
996 | CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


Small Fey, Neutral 


AC 12 + the spell’s level 
HP 30 + 10 for each spell level above 3 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
STR 13 +1 41 рех 16 +3 +3 Сом 14 +2 42 
| INT 14 +2 +2 Wis 11 +0 +0 CHal6 +3 +3 


Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft. | 


Immunities Charmed 

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 

Languages Sylvan, understands the languages you 
know 

CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Fey Blade 
attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down). 


| Fey Blade. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell 
attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 2d6 + 3 + the spell's 
level Force damage. 


BoNus ACTIONS 

Fey Step. The spirit magically teleports up to 30 feet to 
an unoccupied space it can see. Then one of the follow- 
ing effects occurs, based on the spirit's chosen mood: 


Fuming. The spirit has Advantage on the next attack roll 
it makes before the end of this turn. 
Mirthful. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell 


save DC, one creature the spirit can see within 10 
feet of itself. Failure: The target is Charmed by you 
and the spirit for 1 minute or until the target takes 
any damage. 

Tricksy. The spirit fills a 10-foot Cubs within 5 feet of it 
with magical Darkness, which lasts until the end of its 
next turn, 


{ 
i: 
ы 


Success: Half damage. 


k] 


FienoisH Spirit (Devit) 


The creature resembles a Fiend of the 
chosen type, which determines certain 
details in its stat block. The creature 
disappears when it drops to O Hit 
Points or when the spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to youand / 
your allies. In combat, the crea- 
ture shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately 
after yours. It obeys your verbal x 
commands (no action required by : Ж 
you). If you don't issue any, it takes 
the Dodge action and uses its move- 
ment to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use 
the spell slot's level for the spell’s level in 
the stat block. 


| FIENDISH SPIRIT 
| Large Fiend, Neutral | 


| AC 12 + the spell’s level Devil's Sight (Devil Only). Magical Darkness doesn't 

| HP 50 (Demon only) or 40 (Devil only) or 60 (Yugoloth impede the spirit's Darkvision. | 

|! only) + 15 for each spell level above 6 

Speed 40 ft.; Climb 40 ft. (Demon only); Fly 60 ft. 
(Devil only) 

| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE ACTIONS | 

| Stk 13 +1 +1 Dex 16 43 +3 Сом15 +2 +2 


Magic Resistance. The spirit has Advantage on saving | 


| throws against spells and other magical effects. | 


| Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks | d) 
Ls 10 +0 40 Wis 10 40:40. Сн 16 +3 +3 equal to half this spell's level (round down). Io ^. 
| Resistances Fire Bite (Demon Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals p E 
| Immunities Poison; Poisoned your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1912 + 3 + ће | | 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 spell's level Necrotic damage. 


| Languages Abyssal, Infernal, Telepathy 60 ft. 


| CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) Claws (Yugoloth Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals 


your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 + 3 + the 
TRAITS s spell's level Slashing damage. Immediately after the at- 


Death Throes (Demon Only). When the spirit drops to tack hits or misses, the spirit can teleport up to 30 feet 
0 Hit Points or the spell ends, the spirit explodes. Dex- to an unoccupied space it can see. 

terity Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each Fiery Strike (Devil Only). Melee or Ranged Attack 
creature in a 10-fo9t Emanation originating from the Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 
spirit. Failure: 2810 plus this spell's level Fire damage. 5 ft. or range 150 ft. Hit: 2d6 + 3 + the spell's level 
Fire damage. 


ee ZEE 


S a 


SUMMON UNDEAD 
Level 3 Necromancy (Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 


Range: 90 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a gilded skull worth 300+ GP) 


Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You call forth an Undead spirit. It manifests in an 
unoccupied space that you can see within range 
and uses the Undead Spirit stat block. When you 
cast the spell, choose the creature's form: Ghostly, 
Putrid, or Skeletal. The spirit resembles an Undead 
creature with the chosen form, which determines 
certain details in its stat block. The creature dis- 
appears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the 
spell ends. 

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required 
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge 
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's 
level for the spell's level in the stat block. 


UNDEAD Spirit (GHOSTLY) 


= 
| UNDEAD SPIRIT 
Medium Undead, Neutral 
AC 11 + the spell's level 
HP 30 (Ghostly and Putrid only) or 20 (Skeletal only) + 
10 for each spell level above 3 
Speed 30 ft.; Fly 40 ft. (hover; Ghostly only) 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| бтв 12 +1 41 Dex 16 43 43 Сом15 +2 +2 
INT 4 -3 -3 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA9 -1 -1 


Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Exhaustion, Frightened, 
Paralyzed, Poisoned 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 
| Languages Understands the languages you know 
| CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 


TRAITS 


DC equals your spell save DC, any creature (other than 

| you) that starts its turn within a 5-foot Emanation origi- 
| nating from the spirit. Failure: The creature has the Poi- 
| soned condition until the start of its next turn. 


| Incorporeal Passage (Ghostly Only). The spirit can 
| move through other creatures and objects as if they 


— CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


| Festering Aura (Putrid Only). Constitution Saving Throw: 


were Difficult Terrain. If it ends its turn inside an object, 
it is shunted to the nearest unoccupied space and takes 
1d10 Force damage for every 5 feet traveled. 


ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks 
equal to half this spell's level (round down). 

Deathly Touch (Ghostly Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bo- 
nus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 
1d8 + 3 + the spell’s level Necrotic damage, and the 
target has the Frightened condition until the end of its 
next turn. 


Grave Bolt (Skeletal Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus 
equals your spell attack modifier, range 150 ft. Hit: 2d4 
+ 3 + the spell's level Necrotic damage. 


Rotting Claw (Putrid Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus 

equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d6 + 
3 + the spell's level Slashing damage. If the target has 
the Poisoned condition, it has the Paralyzed condition 
until the end of its next turn. 


JUSTIN SWEET 


SUNBEAM | | | 
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self E 

Components: V, S, M (a magnifying glass) 

Duration: Concentration, up to ] minute 

You launch a sunbeam in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long 
Line. Each creature in the Line makes a Constitu- 
tion saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 
6d8 Radiant damage and has the Blinded condition 
until the start of your next turn. On a successful 
save, it takes half as much damage only. 

Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action 
to create a new Line of radiance. 

For the duration, a mote of brilliant radiance 
shines above you. It sheds Bright Light in a 30-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. This 
light is sunlight. 


SUNBURST 

Level 8 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a piece of sunstone) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on a point you choose within range. Each 
creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 12d6 Ra- 
diant damage and has the Blinded condition for 1 
minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much 
damage only. 

A creature Blinded by this spell makes another 
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. 

This spell dispels Darkness in its area that was 
created by any spell. 


SWIFT QUIVER 
Level 5 Transmutation (Ranger) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S, M (a Quiver worth 1+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action until 
it ends, you can make two attacks with a weapon 
that fires Arrows or Bolts, such as a Longbow or 


SYMBOL 

Level 7 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard) 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth 
1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes) 

Duration: Until dispelled or triggered 


You inscribe a harmful glyph either on a surface 
(such as a section of floor or wall) or within an 
object that can be closed (such as a book or chest). 
The glyph can cover an area no larger than 10 feet 
in diameter. If you choose an object, it must remain 
in place; if it is moved more than 10 feet from where 
you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell 
ends without being triggered. 

The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a 
successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your 
spell save DC to notice. 

When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger 
and choose which effect the symbol bears: Death, 
Discord, Fear, Pain, Sleep, or Stunning. Each one is 
explained below. 

Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the glyph 
when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a 
surface, common triggers include touching or step- 
ping on the glyph, removing another object cover- 
ing it, or approaching within a certain distance of it. 
For glyphs inscribed within an object, common trig- 
gers include opening that object or seeing the glyph. 

You can refine the trigger so that only creatures | 
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph іў 
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set | 
conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph, | 
such as those who say a certain password. 

Once triggered, the glyph glows, filling a 
60-foot-radius Sphere with Dim Light for 10 min- EN 1 
utes, after which time the spell ends. Each creature | 
in the Sphere when the glyph activates is targeted 
by its effect, as is a creature that enters the Sphere 

for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. A 
creature is targeted only once per turn. 

Death. Each target makes a Constitution saving 298 
throw, taking 10910 Necrotic damage оп a failed 


US iu Ч 
save or half as much damage on a successful save. a UA. 
Discord. Each target makes a Wisdom saving — ce ares. 
throw. Ona failed save, a target argues with other __ 
creatures for 1 minute. During this time, it is inca- $ уе) 
pable of meaningful communication and has Dis: 
vantage on attack rolls and ability checks. 
Fear. Each target must succeed on a Wisdo 


ing throw or have the Е 


ЭИ 
| 
TE i 
t 


B 


Pain. Each target must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw or have the Incapacitated condition 


for 1 minute. у 
Sleep. Each target must succeed оп а Wisdom ѕау- 


ing throw or have the Unconscious condition for 10 
minutes. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if 
someone takes an action to shake it awake. 
Stunning. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or have the Stunned condition for 1 


minute. 


SYNAPTIC STATIC 
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You cause psychic energy to erupt at a point within 
range. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on that point makes an Intelligence saving 
throw, taking 8d6 Psychic damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. 

On a failed save, a target also has muddled 
thoughts for 1 minute. During that time, it subtracts 
146 from all its attack rolls and ability checks, as 
well as any Constitution saving throws to maintain 
Concentration. The target makes an Intelligence 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending 
the effect on itself on a success. 


эё 


THE LEGENDARY WITCH TASHA USES HER SPELL, TASHA'S 
BuBBLING CAULDRON, TO PRODUCE A MAGIC POTION. 


TASHA’S BUBBLING CAULDRON 
Level 6 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 


Range: 5 feet 
Component: V, S, M (a gilded ladle worth 500+ GP) 


Duration: 10 minutes 


You conjure a claw-footed cauldron filled with bub- 
bling liquid. The cauldron appears in an unoccupied 
space on the ground within 5 feet of you and lasts 
for the duration. The cauldron can’t be moved and 
disappears when the spell ends, along with the bub- 
bling liquid inside it. 

The liquid in the cauldron duplicates the prop- 
erties of aCommon or an Uncommon potion of 
your choice (such as a Potion of Healing). As a Bonus 
Action, you or an ally can reach into the cauldron 
and withdraw one potion of that kind. The potion is 
contained in a vial that disappears when the potion 
is consumed. The cauldron can produce a number 
of these potions equal to your spellcasting ability 
modifier (minimum 1). When the last of these po- 
tions is withdrawn from the cauldron, the cauldron 
disappears, and the spell ends. 

Potions obtained from the cauldron that aren't 
consumed disappear when you cast this spell again. 


TASHA'S HIDEOUS LAUGHTER 
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) 


casting Time: Action 


Range: 30 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a tart and a feather) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


One creature of your choice that you can see within 
range makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed 
save, it has the Prone and Incapacitated conditions 
for the duration. During that time, it laughs uncon- 
trollably if it's capable of laughter, and it can't end 
the Prone condition on itself. 

At the end of each of its turns and each time it 
takes damage, it makes another Wisdom saving 
throw. The target has Advantage on the save if the 
save is triggered by damage. On a successful save, 


the spell ends. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one 
additional creature for each spell slot level about 1. 


TELEKINESIS 
Level 5 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


You gain the ability to move or manipulate crea- 
tures or objects by thought. When you cast the spell 
and as a Magic action on your later turns before the 
spell ends, you can exert your will on one creature 
or object that you can see within range, causing the 
appropriate effect below. You can affect the same 
target round after round or choose a new one at any 
time. If you switch targets, the prior target is no 
longer affected by the spell. 

Creature. You can try to move a Huge or smaller 
creature. The target must succeed on a Strength 
saving throw, or you move it up to 30 feet in any 
direction within the spell's range. Until the end of 
your next turn, the creature has the Restrained con- 
dition, and if you lift it into the air, it is suspended 
there. It falls at the end of your next turn unless you 
use this option on it again and it fails the save. 

Object. You can try to move a Huge or smaller 
object. If the object isn't being worn or carried, you 
automatically move it up to 30 feet in any direction 
within the spell’s range. 

If the object is worn or carried by a creature, that 
creature must succeed on a Strength saving throw, 
or you pull the object away and move it up to 30 
feet in any direction within the spell's range. 

D. You can exert fie control on objects with your 


Le: 


elekinetic grip, sch as manipulating a simple tool, 


or or a container, stowing or retrieving 


Ann | an open container, ог pouring the con- 
| a vial. 
аа 

TELEPATHY 


Level 8 Divination (Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: Unlimited 


Components: V, S, M (a pair of linked silver rings) 
Duration: 24 hours 


You create a telepathic link between yourself and a 
willing creature with which you are familiar. The 
creature can be anywhere on the same plane of ex- 
istence as you. The spell ends if you or the target are 
no longer on the same plane. 

Until the spell ends, you and the target can in- 
stantly share words, images, sounds, and other 
sensory messages with each other through the link, 
and the target recognizes you as the creature it is 
communicating with. The spell enables a creature 
to understand the meaning of your words and any 
sensory messages you send to it. 


TELEPORT 

Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


This spell instantly transports you and up to eight 
willing creatures that you can see within range, or a 
single object that you can see within range, to a des- 
tination you select. If you target an object, it must 
be Large or smaller, and it can't be held or carried 
by an unwilling creature. 

The destination you choose must be known to 
you, and it must be on the same plane of existence 
as you. Your familiarity with the destination deter- 
mines whether you arrive there successfully. The 
DM rolls 1d100 and consults the Teleportation Out- 
come table and the explanations after it. 


TELEPORTATION OUTCOME 
Similar Off Оп 


Familiarity Mishap Area Target Target 
Permanent circle — — — 01-00 
Linked object — — — 01-00 
Very familiar 01-05 06-13 14-24 25-00 
Seen casually 01-33 34-43 44-53 54-00 
Viewed onceor 01-43 44-53 54-73 74-00 
described 

51-00 — — 


False destination 


ке 


01—50 


ee 


Familiarity. Here are the meanings of the terms in 
the table’s Familiarity column: 

- “Permanent circle" means a permanent teleporta- 
tion circle whose sigil sequence you know. 

- "Linked object" means you possess an object 
taken from the desired destination within the last 
six months, such as a book from a wizard's library. 

- "Very familiar" is a place you have visited often, 

a place you have carefully studied, or a place you 


can see when you cast the spell. 

- "Seen casually" is a place you have seen more than 
once but with which you aren't very familiar. 

- "Viewed once or described" is a place you have 
seen once, possibly using magic, or a place you 
know through someone else's description, perhaps 


from a map. 

- "False destination" is a place that doesn't exist. 
Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy's sanctum but 
instead viewed an illusion, or you are attempting 
to teleport to a location that no longer exists. 


Mishap. The spell's unpredictable magic results in 
a difficult journey. Each teleporting creature (or the 
target object) takes 3d10 Force damage, and the DM 
rerolls on the table to see where you wind up (multi- 
ple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time). 

Similar Area. You and your group (or the target 
object) appear in a different area that's visually or 
thematically similar to the target area. You appear 
in the closest similar place. If you are heading for 
your home laboratory, for example, you might ap- 
pear in another person's laboratory in the same city. 

Off Target. You and your group (or the target ob- 
ject) appear 2d12 miles away from the destination 
in a random direction. Roll 1d8 for the direction: 1, 
east; 2, southeast; 3, south; 4, southwest; 5, west; 6, 
northwest; 7, north; or 8, northeast. 

On Target. You and your group (or the target ob- 
ject) appear where you intended. 


TELEPORTATION CIRCLE 
Level 5 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 10 feet 

Components: V, M (rare inks worth 50+ GP, which the 
spell consumes) 

Duration: 1 round 


As you cast the spell, you draw a 5-foot-radius circle 
on the ground inscribed with sigils that link your 
location to a permanent teleportation circle of your 
choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is 


on the same plane of existence as you. A shimmer- 
ing portal opens within the circle you drew and 
remains open until the end of your next turn. Any 
creature that enters the portal instantly appears 
within 5 feet of the destination circle or in the near- 
est unoccupied space if that space is occupied. 

Many major temples, guildhalls, and other im- 
portant places have permanent teleportation cir- 
cles. Each circle includes a unique sigil sequence—a 
string of runes arranged in a particular pattern. 

When you first gain the ability to cast this spell, 
you learn the sigil sequences for two destinations 
on the Material Plane, determined by the DM. You 
might learn additional sigil sequences during your 
adventures. You can commit a new sigil sequence to 
memory after studying it for 1 minute. 

You can create a permanent teleportation circle 
by casting this spell in the same location every day 


for 365 days. 


TENSER’S FLOATING DISK 
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury) 
Duration: 1 hour 


This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of 
force, 3 feet in diameter and 1 inch thick, that floats 
3 feet above the ground in an unoccupied space 
of your choice that you can see within range. The 
disk remains for the duration and can hold up to 
500 pounds. If more weight is placed on it, the spell 
ends, and everything on the disk falls to the ground. 

The disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet 
of it. If you move more than 20 feet away from it, 
the disk follows you so that it remains within 20 
feet of you. It can move across uneven terrain, up 
or down stairs, slopes and the like, but it can’t cross 
an elevation change of 10 feet or more. For exam- 
ple, the disk can’t move across a 10-foot-deep pit, 
nor could it leave such a pit if it was created at the 
bottom. 

If you move more than 100 feet from the disk 
(typically because it can’t move around an obstacle 
to follow you), the spell ends. 


— eL 


t J 
с) 


A Reo WizaRO OF THAY ORDERS SKELETAL SERVANTS TO 
HEAP RICHES ON THE DISK OF TENSER's FLOATING Disk. 


THAUMATURGY 
Transmutation Cantrip (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V 

Duration: Up to 1 minute 


You manifest a minor wonder within range. You 
create one of the effects below within range. If you 
cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to 
three of its 1-minute effects active at a time. 

Altered Eyes. You alter the appearance of your 
eyes for 1 minute. 

Booming Voice. Your voice booms up to three 
times as loud as normal for 1 minute. For the dura- 
tion, you have Advantage on Charisma (Intimida- 
tion) checks. 

Fire Play. You cause flames to flicker, brighten, 
dim, or change color for 1 minute. 

Invisible Hand. You instantaneously cause an un- 
locked door or window to fly open or slam shut. 

Phantom Sound. You create an instantaneous 
sound that originates from a point of your choice 
within range, such as a rumble of thunder, the cry 
of a raven, or ominous whispers. 

Tremors. You cause harmless tremors in the 
ground for 1 minute. 


THORN WHIP 
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 


Components: V, S, M (the stem of a thorny plant) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You create a vine-like whip covered in thorns that 
lashes out at your command toward a creature in 
range. Make a melee spell attack against the target. 
On a hit, the target takes 146 Piercing damage, and 
if itis Large or smaller, you can pull it up to 10 feet 
closer to you. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6 
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (346), and 17 (446). 


THUNDERCLAP 


Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Each creature in a 5-foot Emanation originating 
from you must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw or take 1d6 Thunder damage. The spell's 
thunderous sound can be heard up to 100 feet away. 
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6 
when you reach levels 5 (246), 11 (546), and 17 (446). 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


333 


peer nn OT 


794 


THUNDEROUS SMITE 

Level 1 Evocation (Paladin) 

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 

Range: Self 

Component: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Your strike rings with thunder that is audible 

within 300 feet of you, and the target takes an ex- 

tra 2d6 Thunder damage from the attack. Addition- 

ally, if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a 

Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away 

from you and have the Prone condition. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 

creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


THUNDERWAVE 
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You unleash a wave of thunderous energy. Each 
creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from you 
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, 
a creature takes 2d8 Thunder damage and is pushed 
10 feet away from you. On a successful save, a crea- 
ture takes half as much damage only. 

In addition, unsecured objects that are entirely 
within the Cube are pushed 10 feet away from you, 
and a thunderous boom is audible within 300 feet. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1. 


TIME STOP 
Level 9 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but 
yourself. No time passes for other creatures, while 
you take 1d4 + 1 turns in a row, during which you 
can use actions and move as normal. 

This spell ends if one of the actions you use during 
this period, or any effects that you create during it, 
affects a creature other than you or an object be- 
ing worn or carried by someone other than you. In 
addition, the spell ends if you move to a place more 
than 1,000 feet from the location where you cast it. 


GHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


TOLL THE DEAD 
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You point at one creature you can see within range, 
and the single chime of a dolorous bell is audible 
within 10 feet of the target. The target must succeed 
on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d8 Necrotic 
damage. If the target is missing any of its Hit Points, 
it instead takes 1d12 Necrotic damage. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by one 
die when you reach levels 5 (2d8 or 2d12), 11 (3d8 or 
5412), and 17 (448 or 4412). 


TONGUES 
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, M (a miniature ziggurat) 
Duration: 1 hour 


This spell grants the creature you touch the ability 
to understand any spoken or signed language that 

it hears or sees. Moreover, when the target commu- 
nicates by speaking or signing, any creature that 
knows at least one language can understand it if 
that creature can hear the speech or see the signing. 


TRANSPORT VIA PLANTS 
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 10 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 1 minute 


This spell creates a magical link between a Large 

or larger inanimate plant within range and another 
plant, at any distance, on the same plane of exis- 
tence. You must have seen or tauched the destina- 
tion plant at least once before. For the duration, any 
creature can step into the target plant and exit from 
the destination plant by using 1 “eet of movement. 


TRANSPORT VIA PLANTS ANO TREE STRIDE TURN 
TREES INTO A TRANSPORTATION NETWORK. 


TREE STRIDE 

Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from 
inside it to inside another tree of the same kind 
within 500 feet. Both trees must be living and at 
least the same size as you. You must use 5 feet of 
movement to enter a tree. You instantly know the 
location of all other trees of the same kind within 
500 feet and, as part of the move used to enter the 
tree, can either pass into one of those trees or step 
out of the tree you're in. You appear in a spot of 
your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree, 
using another 5 feet of movement. If you have no 
movement left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree 
you entered. 

You can use this transportation ability only once 
on each of your turns. You must end each turn out- 
side a tree. 


TRUE POLYMORPH 
Level 9 Transmutation (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury, a dollop of 
gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke) 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


Choose one creature or nonmagical object that you 
can see within range. The creature shape-shifts into 
a different creature or a nonmagical object, or the 
objec: shape-shifts into a creature (the object must 
be neither worn nor carried). The transformation 
lasts for the duration or until the target dies or is 


destroyed, but if you maintain Concentration on 


this spell for the full duration, the spell lasts until 
dispelled. 


An unwilling creature can make a Wisdom sav- 


ing throw, and if it succeeds, it isn't affected by this 
spell. 


Creature into Creature. If you turn a creature into 
another kind of creature, the new form can be any 
kind you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal 
to or less than the target's Challenge Rating or level. 
The target's game statistics are replaced by the stat 
block of the new form, but it retains its Hit Points, 
Hit Point Dice, alignment, and personality. 

The target gains a number of Temporary Hit 
Points equal to the Hit Points of the new form. The 


spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary 
Hit Points left. 


The target is limited in the actions it can perform 
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak 
or cast spells. 

The target's gear melds into the new form. The 
creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of 
that equipment. 

Object into Creature. You can turn an object into 
any kind of creature, as long as the creature's size 
is no larger than the object's size and the creature 
has a Challenge Rating of 9 or lower. The creature 
is Friendly to you and your allies. In combat, it takes 
its turns immediately after yours, and it obeys your 
commands. 

If the spell lasts more than an hour, you no longer 
control the creature. It might remain Friendly to 
you, depending on how you have treated it. 

Creature into Object. If you turn a creature into an 
object, it transforms along with whatever it is wear- 
ing and carrying into that form, as long as the ob- 
ject's size is no larger than the creature's size. The 
creature's statistics become those of the object, and 
the creature has no memory of time spent in this 
form after the spell ends and it returns to normal. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


—— 


335» 
s 7] 


БЕРИНИН P 


TRUE RESURRECTION 
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid) 


Casting Time: 1 hour 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (diamonds worth 25,000+ GP, 


which the spell consumes) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You touch a creature that has been dead for no 
longer than 200 years and that died for any reason 
except old age. The creature is revived with all its 


Hit Points. 

This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any 
poison, cures all magical contagions, and lifts any 
curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell 
replaces damaged or missing organs and limbs. 

If the creature was Undead, it is restored to its 
non-Undead form. 

The spell can provide a new body if the original 
no longer exists, in which case you must speak the 
creature’s name. The creature then appears in an 
unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you. 


ТВОЕ SEEING 

Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action 


Range: Touch 
Components: V, S, M (mushroom powder worth 25+ 


GP, which the spell consumes) 
Duration: 1 hour 


For the duration, the willing creature you touch has 
Truesight with a range of 120 feet. 


TRUE STRIKE 
Divination Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: S, M (a weapon with which you have 
proficiency and that is worth 1+ CP) 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Guided by a flash of magical insight, you make one 
attack with the weapon used in the spell’s casting. 
The attack uses your spellcasting ability for the at- 
tack and damage rolls instead of using Strength or 
Dexterity. If the attack deals damage, it can be Ra- 
diant damage or the weapon's normal damage type 
(your choice). 

Cantrip Upgrade. Whether you deal Radiant dam- 
age or the weapon's normal damage type, the attack 
deals extra Radiant damage when you reach levels 5 
(1d6), 11 (2d6), and 17 (3d6). 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


TSUNAMI 
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid) 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 1 mile 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 6 rounds 


A wall of water springs into existence at a point you 
choose within range. You can make the wall up to 
300 feet long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. The 
wall lasts for the duration. 

When the wall appears, each creature in its area 
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 6d10 Blud- 
geoning damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 

At the start of each of your turns after the wall 
appears, the wall, along with any creatures in it, 
moves 50 feet away from you. Any Huge or smaller 
creature inside the wall or whose space the wall 
enters when it moves must succeed ona Strength 
saving throw or take 5d10 Bludgeoning damage. A 
creature can take this damage only once per round. 
At the end of the turn, the wall’s height is reduced 
by 50 feet, and the damage the wall deals on later 
rounds is reduced by 1410. When the wall reaches О 
feet in height, the spell ends. 

A creature caught in the wall can move by swim- 
ming. Because of the wave's force, though, the crea- 
ture must succeed on a Strength (Athletics) check 
against your spell save DC to move at all. If it fails 
the check, it can't move. A creature that moves out 
of the wall falls to the ground. 


UNSEEN SERVANT 
Level 1 Conjuration (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of string and of wood) 
Duration: 1 hour 


This spell creates an Invisible, mindless, shapeless, 
Medium force that performs simple tasks at your 
command until the spell ends. The servant springs 
into existence in an unoccupied space on the 
ground within range. It has AC 10, 1 Hit Point, and a 
Strength of 2, and it can't attack. If it drops to O Hit 
Points, the spell ends. 

Once on each of your turns as a Bonus Action, 
you can mentally command the servant to move up 
to 15 feet and interact with an object. The servant 
can perform simple tasks that a human could do, 
such as fetching things, cleaning, mending, folding 
clothes, lighting fires, serving food, and pouring 


not 
Y 
^ 
A GNome Baro casts Vicious MOCKERY TO 
SKEWER A KOBOLD WITH MAGICAL INSULTS. 


drinks. Once you give the command, the servant 
performs the task to the best of its ability until 
it completes the task, then waits for your next 
command. 

If you command the servant to perform a task 
that would move it more than 60 feet away from 
you, the spell ends. 


VAMPIRIC TOUCH 
Level 3 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, S 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can si- 
phon life force from others to heal your wounds. 
Make a melee spell attack against one creature 
within reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 Necrotic 
damage, and you regain Hit Points equal to half the 
amount of Necrotic damage dealt. 

Until the spell ends, you can make the attack 
again on each of your turns as a Magic action, tar- 
geting the same creature or a different one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3. 


Vicious MOCKERY 
Enchantment Cantrip (Bard) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle 
enchantments at one creature you can see or hear 
within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or take 1d6 Psychic damage and have 
Disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before 
the end of its next turn. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 146 
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6). 


VITRIOLIC SPHERE 
Level 4 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 150 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a drop of bile) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You point at a location within range, and a glow- 
ing, 1-foot-diameter ball of acid streaks there and 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


df 
LF 


A TIEFLING SORCERER UNLEASHES 
VirRIOLIC SPHERE ON NOTHICS 


explodes in a 20-foot-radius Sphere. Each creature 
in that area makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a 
failed save, a creature takes 10d4 Acid damage and 


another 5d4 Acid damage at the end of its next turn. 


On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial 
damage only. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage 
increases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 4. 


WALL OF FIRE 
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a piece of charcoal) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within 
range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20 
feet high, and 1 foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20 
feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The 
wall is opaque and lasts for the duration. 

When the wall appears, each creature in its area 
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d8 Fire 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on 
a successful one. 

One side of the wall, selected by you when you 
cast this spell, deals 5d8 Fire damage to each crea- 
ture that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or 
inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage 
when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


=СКЕ ?. REB у 


or ends its turn there. The other side of the wall 


deals no damage. 
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 


creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4. 


WALL OF FORCE 
Level 5 Evocation (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


An Invisible wall of force springs into existence at 

a point you choose within range. The wall appears 
in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or 
vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free floating 
or resting on a solid surface. You can form it into a 
hemispherical dome or a globe with a radius of up 
to 10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up 
of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must 
be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the 
wall is 1/4 inch thick and lasts for the duration. If 
the wall cuts through a creature's space when it ap- 
pears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall 
(you choose which side). 

Nothing can physically pass through the wall. It 
is immune to all damage and can't be dispelled by 
Dispel Magic. A Disintegrate specii destroys the wall 
instantly, however. The wall atse extends into the 
Ethereal Plane and blocks et hereai travel through 


the wall. 


a ка а Dexterity saving throw. On a success, it can use 
À i its Reaction to move up to its Speed so that it is no 
longer enclosed by the wall. 


The wall can have any shape you desire, though it 


Level 6 Evocation (Wizard) 


Casting Time: Action 


Range: 120 feet can't occupy the same space as a creature or object. 
Components: V, S, M (a piece of quartz) The wall doesn't need to be vertical or rest on a firm 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes foundation. It must, however, merge with and be 


solidly supported by existing stone. Thus, you can 
use this spell to bridge a chasm or create a ramp. 

If you create a span greater than 20 feet in length, 
you must halve the size of each panel to create sup- 
ports. You can crudely shape the wall to create bat- 
tlements and the like. 

The wall is an object made of stone that can be 
damaged and thus breached. Each panel has AC 15 
and 30 Hit Points per inch of thickness, and it has 
Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage. Reducing 
a panel to О Hit Points destroys it and might cause 
connected panels to collapse at the DM's discretion. 

If you maintain your Concentration on this spell 


You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within 
range. You can form it into a hemispherical dome 
or a globe with a radius of up to 10 feet, or you can 
shape a flat surface made up of ten 10-foot-square 
panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another 
panel. In any form, the wall is 1 foot thick and lasts 

| for the duration. 

i If the wall cuts through a creature's space when 
it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the 
wall (you choose which side) and makes a Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 10d6 Cold damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. 

The wall is an object that can be damaged and for its full duration, the wall becomes permanent 
thus breached. It has AC 12 and 30 Hit Points per and can't be dispelled. Otherwise, the wall disap- 
10-foot section, and it has Immunity to Cold, Poi- pears when the spell ends. 
son, and Psychic damage and Vulnerability to Fire 
damage. Reducing a 10-foot section of wall to 0 Hit 
Points destroys it and leaves behind a sheet of frigid WALL OF THORNS 
air in the space the wall occupied. Level 6 Conjuration (Druid) 

A creature moving through the sheet of frigid air 
for the first time on a turn makes a Constitution 
saving throw, taking 5d6 Cold damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage the 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a handful of thorns) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


— EDEN 


wall deals when it appears increases by 2d6 and the You create a wall of tangled brush bristling with 
damage from passing through the sheet of frigid air needle-sharp thorns. The wall appears within range 
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 6. on a solid surface and lasts for the duration. You 
choose to make the wall up to 60 feet long, 10 feet 
high, and 5 feet thick or a circle that has a 20-foot 
WALL OF STONE diameter and is up to 20 feet high and 5 feet thick. 
Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) The wall blocks line of sight. 


When the wall appears, each creature in its area 
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 7d8 Pierc- 
ing damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one. 

A creature can move through the wall, albeit 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a cube of granite) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes 


A nonmagical wall of solid stone springs into exis- slowly and painfully. For every 1 foot a creature 

tence at a point you choose within range. The wall moves through the wall, it must spend 4 feet of 

is 6 inches thick and is composed of ten 10-foot-by- movement. Furthermore, the first time a creature 

10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with enters a space in the wall on a turn or ends its turn 

another panel. Alternatively, you can create 10-foot- there, the creature makes a Dexterity saving throw, 

by-20-foot panels that are only 5 inches thick. taking 7d8 Slashing damage on a failed save or half 
If the wall cuts through a creature's space when as much damage on a successful one. A creature 

it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the makes this save only once per turn. 

wall (you choose which side). If a creature would Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Both types of dam- 

be surrounded on all sides by the wall (or the wall age increase by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 6. 


and another solid surface), that creature can make 


"и P- CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS | 339 | 


WARDING BOND 

Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Touch 

Components: V, S, M (a pair of platinum rings worth 
50+ GP each, which you and the target must wear 
for the duration) 

Duration: 1 hour 

You touch another creature that is willing and 

create a mystic connection between you and the 

target until the spell ends. While the target is 

within 60 feet of you, it gains a *1 bonus to AC and 

saving throws, and it has Resistance to all damage. 

Also, each time it takes damage, you take the same 


amount of damage. 
The spell ends if you drop to O Hit Points or if you 


and the target become separated by more than 60 
feet. It also ends if the spell is cast again on either of 
the connected creatures. 


WATER BREATHING 
Level 3 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard) 

Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a short reed) 

Duration: 24 hours 


This spell grants up to ten willing creatures of your 
choice within range the ability to breathe under- 
water until the spell ends. Affected creatures also 
retain their normal mode of respiration. 


WATER WALK 

Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer) 
Casting Time: Action or Ritual 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a piece of cork) 

Duration: 1 hour 


This spell grants the ability to move across any liq- 
uid surface—such as water, acid, mud, snow, quick- 
sand, or lava—as if it were harmless solid ground 
(creatures crossing molten lava can still take dam- 
age from the heat). Up to ten willing creatures of 
your choice within range gain this ability for the 
duration. 

An affected target must take a Bonus Action to 
pass from the liquid's surface into the liquid itself 
and vice versa, but if the target falls into the liquid, 
the target passes through the surface into the liquid 


below. 


= : : | 
340 CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS Sec T» 


SpELLS LIKE WATER BREATHING AND WATER 
WALK ASSIST VISITS TO AQUATIC REALMS. 


WEB 

Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 


You conjure a mass of sticky webbing at a point 
within range. The webs fill a 20-foot Cube there for 
the duration. The webs are Difficult Terrain, and the 
area within them is Lightly Obscured. 

If the webs aren't anchored between two solid 
masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a 
floor, wall, or ceiling, the web collapses on itself, and 
the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs 
layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet. 

The first time a creature enters the webs on a turn 
or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a Dexter- 
ity saving throw or have the Restrained condition 
while in the webs or until it breaks free. 

A creature Restrained by the webs can take an 
action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against 
your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer 
Restrained. 

The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot Cube of webs 
exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 
Fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in 


the fire. 


ANDREW MAR 


WEIRD 

Level 9 Illusion (Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, 5 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You try to create illusory terrors in others’ minds. 
Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on a point within range makes a 
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target 
takes 10d10 Psychic damage and has the Frightened 
condition for the duration. On a successful save, a 
target takes half as much damage only. 

A Frightened target makes a Wisdom saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed 
save, it takes 5d10 Psychic damage. On a successful 
save, the spell ends on that target. 


WIND WALK 

Level 6 Transmutation (Druid) 
Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: 30 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a candle) 
Duration: 8 hours 


You and up to ten willing creatures of your choice 
within range assume gaseous forms for the du- 
ration, appearing as wisps of cloud. While in this 
cloud form, a target has a Fly Speed of 300 feet and 
can hover; it has Immunity to the Prone condition; 
and it has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and 
Slashing damage. The only actions a target can take 
in this form are the Dash action or a Magic action to 
begin reverting to its normal form. Reverting takes 
1 minute, during which the target has the Stunned 
condition. Until the spell ends, the target can revert 
to cloud form, which also requires a Magic action 
followed by a 1-minute transformation. 

If a target is in cloud form and flying when the ef- 
fect ends, the target descends 60 feet per round for 
1 minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it can't 
land after 1 minute, it falls the remaining distance. 


WiND WALL 
Level 3 Evocation (Druid, Ranger) 


Casting Time: Action 

Range: 120 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a fan and a feather) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a 
point you choose within range. You can make the 
wall up to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick. 


You can shape the wall in any way you choose so 
long as it makes one continuous path along the 
ground. The wall lasts for the duration. 

When the wall appears, each creature in its area 
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 4d8 Blud- 
geoning damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. 

The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other 
gases at bay. Small or smaller flying creatures or 
objects can't pass through the wall. Loose, light- 
weight materials brought into the wall fly upward. 
Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles 
launched at targets behind the wall are deflected 
upward and miss automatically. Boulders hurled by 
Giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are 
unaffected. Creatures in gaseous form can't pass 

through it. 


WisH 

Level 9 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal can cast. By sim- 
ply speaking aloud, you can alter reality itself. 

The basic use of this spell is to duplicate any other 
spell of level 8 or lower. If you use it this way, you 
don't need to meet any requirements to cast that 
spell, including costly components. The spell simply 
takes effect. 


Alternatively, you can create one of the following 
effects of your choice: 


Object Creation. You create one object of up to 
25,000 GP in value that isn't a magic item. The 
object can be no more than 300 feet in any di- 
mension, and it appears in an unoccupied space 
that you can see on the ground. 

Instant Health. You allow yourself and up to 
twenty creatures that you can see to regain all Hit 
Points, and you end all effects on them listed in 
the Greater Restoration spell. 

Resistance. You grant up to ten creatures that you 
can see Resistance to one damage type that you 
choose. This Resistance is permanent. 

Spell Immunity. You grant up to ten creatures you 
can see immunity to a single spell or other magi- 
cal effect for 8 hours. 

Sudden Learning. You replace one of your feats 
with another feat for which you are eligible. You 
lose all the benefits of the old feat and gain the 
benefits of the new one. You can't replace a feat 
that is a prerequisite for any of your other feats or 
features. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


41 


242 


A HALFLING WARLOCK ZAPS А 
ZOMBIE WITH THE GRASPING 


LIGHTNING OF WircH Вогт. 


Roll Redo. You undo a single recent event by forc- 
ing a reroll of any die roll made within the last 
round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes 
itself to accommodate the new result. For exam- 
ple, a Wish spell could undo an ally’s failed saving 
throw or a foe's Critical Hit. You can force the re- 
roll to be made with Advantage or Disadvantage, 
and you choose whether to use the reroll or the 
original roll. 

Reshape Reality. You may wish for something not 
included in any of the other effects. To do so, state 
your wish to the DM as precisely as possible. The 
DM has great latitude in ruling what occurs in 
such an instance; the greater the wish, the greater 
the likelihood that something goes wrong. This 
spell might simply fail, the effect you desire might 
be achieved only in part, or you might suffer an 
unforeseen consequence as a result of how you 
worded the wish. For example, wishing that a 
villain were dead might propel you forward in 
time to a period when that villain is no longer 
alive, effectively removing you from the game. 
Similarly, wishing for a Legendary magic item or 
an Artifact might instantly transport you to the 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


presence of the item’s current owner. If your wish 
is granted and its effects have consequences for a 
whole community, region, or world, you are likely 
to attract powerful foes. If your wish would affect 
a god, the god’s divine servants might instantly in- 
tervene to prevent it or to encourage you to craft 
the wish in a particular way. If your wish would 
undo the multiverse itself, threaten the City of 
Sigil, or affect the Lady of Pain in any way, you 
see an image of her in your mind for a moment; 
she shakes her head, and your wish fails. 


The stress of casting Wish to produce any effect 
other than duplicating another spell weakens you. 
After enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell 
until you finish a Long Rest, you take 1d10 Necrotic 
damage per level of that spell. This damage can’t be 
reduced or prevented in any way. In addition, your 
Strength score becomes 3 for 2d4 days. For each of 
those days that you spend resting and doing nothing 
more than light activity, your remaining recovery 
time decreases by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 per- 
cent chance that you are unable to cast Wish ever 
again if you suffer this stress. 


WITCH BOLT 

Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: 60 feet 

Components: V, S, M (a twig struck by lightning) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


A beam of crackling energy lances toward a crea- 
ture within range, forming a sustained arc of light- 
ning between you and the target. Make a ranged 
spell attack against it. On a hit, the target takes 
2d12 Lightning damage. 

On each of your subsequent turns, you can take a 
Bonus Action to deal 1d12 Lightning damage to the 
target automatically, even if the first attack missed. 

The spell ends if the target is ever outside the 
spell’s range or if it has Total Cover from you. 

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage 
increases by 1d12 for each spell slot level above 1. 


WORD OF RADIANCE 

Evocation Cantrip (Cleric) 

Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Components: V, M (a sunburst token) 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Burning radiance erupts from you in a 5-foot Em- 
anation. Each creature of your choice that you can 
see in it must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw or take 1d6 Radiant damage. 

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6 
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6). 


WorD OF RECALL 
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 5 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 


You and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet 
of you instantly teleport to a previously designated 
sanctuary. You and any creatures that teleport with 
you appear in the nearest unoccupied space to the 
spot you designated when you prepared your sanc- 
tuary (see below). If you cast this spell without first 
preparing a sanctuary, the spell has no effect. 

You must designate a location, such as a temple, as 
a ѕапс! чагу by casting this spell there. 


oo 


WRATHFUL SMITE 
Level 1 Necromancy (Paladin) 


Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi- 


ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike 


Range: Self 
Component: V 
Duration: 1 minute 


The target takes an extra 1d6 Necrotic damage 
from the attack, and it must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or have the Frightened condition until 
the spell ends. At the end of each of its turns, the 


Frightened target repeats the save, ending the spell 
on itself on a success. 


Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in- 
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1. 


YOLANDE'S REGAL PRESENCE 
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 

Range: Self 

Component: V, S, M (a miniature tiara) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 


You surround yourself with unearthly majesty in a 
10-foot Emanation. Whenever the Emanation en- 
ters the space of a creature you can see and when- 
ever a creature you can see enters the Emanation or 
ends its turn there, you can force that creature to 
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the 
target takes 4d6 Psychic damage and has the Prone 
condition, and you can push it up to 10 feet away. 
On a successful save, the target takes half as much 
damage only. A creature makes this save only once 
per turn. 


ZONE OF TRUTH 
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Paladin) 


Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: 10 minutes 


You create a magical zone that guards against de- 
ception in a 15-foot-radius Sphere centered on a 
point within range. Until the spell ends, a creature 
that enters the spell’s area for the first time on a 
turn or starts its turn there makes a Charisma sav- 
ing throw. On a failed save, a creature can't speaka 
deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether 
a creature succeeds or fails on this save. 

An affected creature is aware of the spell and 
can avoid answering questions to which it would 
normally respond with a lie. Such a creature can be 
evasive yet must be truthful. 


CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 


343 


ae 


į 


} 


APPENDIX A 


THE MULTIVERSE 


This appendix provides an overview of the mul- 
tiverse, the overarching reality that encompasses 
D&D's countless worlds and adventures. These 
realms are explored in greater detail in the Dungeon 
Master's Guide, along with other planes like the Far 
Realm, Negative Plane, and Positive Plane. 


THE MATERIAL REALMS 


The philosophical and elemental forces of reality 

converge to create the following planes of existence: 

Material Plane. Most D&D adventures take place 
on the Material Plane, which holds the worlds of 
settings like Dragonlance, Eberron, the Forgotten 
Realms, and Greyhawk. There's also room for any 
world your group creates. Magic and physical 
laws shape this plane’s diverse worlds. 

Feywild. This vibrant, idealized realm brims with 
life and emotion, which are most intense in the 
realm’s Domains of Delight. 

Shadowfell. This gloom-haunted realm holds grim 
wastelands, haunted ruins, and the infamous Do- 


mains of Dread. 


‘TRANSITIVE PLANES 


The transitive planes serve as paths between planes: 


Astral Plane. This endless, silvery expanse links the 
Material Plane and the Outer Planes. Whole civi- 
lizations have arisen in this glimmering vastness, 
while others navigate the magical cosmos in spell- 
jamming vessels. 

Ethereal Plane. This ghostly realm connects the 
Material Plane and the Inner Planes. The region 
where the Ethereal Plane overlaps with other 
planes is called the Border Ethereal, a place where 
creatures can glimpse visions of planes beyond. 


THE INNER PLANES 


Elemental forces and the building blocks of reality 
originate from these Inner Planes: 


Elemental Plane of Air. Winds blow clouds and 
floating islands across this boundless sky. 

Elemental Plane of Earth. This maze of caverns 
winds through stone and untold mineral riches. 

Elemental Plane of Fire. An everlasting inferno, 
this realm blazes with life on volcanic islands. 

Elemental Plane of Water. This bottomless ocean 
churns with mysterious sea life. 


одд, — APPENDIX A | THE MULTIVERSE 


Elemental Chaos. Here on the fringes of the Inner 
Planes, elemental forces clash unpredictably. 

Para-Elemental Planes. In these borderlands be- 
tween the Elemental Planes, elemental forces 
combine into realms of ash, ice, magma, and ooze. 


THE OUTER PLANES 


Realms where ideas take form and spirits spend 
their afterlives, the Outer Planes are the homes of 
immortals. The following locations compose the 
Outer Planes: 


Sigil. Sigil, the City of Doors, is a metropolis rather 
than a plane at the center of the Outer Planes. 
Here portals lead throughout the multiverse, and 
the enigmatic Lady of Pain maintains order. 

Outlands. Influences from the other Outer Planes 
converge in the Outlands, where portals lead to 
those planes. At the Outlands’ center rises the 
Spire, a pillar atop which floats Sigil. 

Other Outer Planes. These planes are listed on the 
Outer Planes table. Some are paradises, some are 
nightmare realms, and some are more bizarre. 
Each is dominated by forces that embody one or 
more of the alignments described in chapter 2. 


OuTER PLANES 


Outer Plane Alignment 

Abyss Chaotic Evil 

Acheron Lawful Evil, Lawful Neutral 

Arborea Chaotic Good 

Arcadia Lawful Good, Lawful Neutral 

Beastlands Chaotic Good, Neutral Good 

Bytopia Lawful Good, Neutral Good 

Carceri Chaotic Evil, Neutral Evil 

Elysium Neutral Good 

Gehenna Lawful Evil, Neutral Evil 

Hades Neutral Evil 

Limbo Chaotic Neutral 

Mechanus Lawful Neutral 

Mount Celestia Lawful Good 

Nine Hells Lawful Evil 

Outlands Neutral А 
Pandemonium Chaotic Evil, Chaotic Neutral : 
Ysgard Chaotic Good, Chaotic Neutral : 


"| 


m— P— Ss 
a с 
oomen — 

- "mc p 


b. * 


Sa 


Жз 


"d + ‹ 
S 
tee 


INE OF MAGMA 


- ам е Un 
"ee e EE ise g 


[ETHERERTDURNENN 


ASTRAL PLANE 


ELYSIUM 
BYTOPIA : BEASTLANDS 
L MounT c. г) 5 А 
T CELESTIAL ` y | RBOREA 
Mee oo Vw 
оиа 3 YSGARD 
| № UR -— | s há 
| Ч | Лр LIMBO 


PANDEMONIUM 


NINE HELLS 


GEHENNA CARCERI 
HADES 


QUTER PLANES 


APPENDIX B 
CREATURE par BLOCKS 


This appendix provides stat blocks for creatures 
mentioned elsewhere in the book, particularly in 
the class, equipment, and spell chapters. See the 
rules glossary for how to read a stat block, and see 
the Monster Manual for even more creatures. 

The following stat blocks are presented in alpha- 
betical order. When the Dungeon Master uses a stat 
block, the DM may change details in it. 


í >) 
APE 
Medium Beast, Unaligned 

| AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) 
HP 19 (3d8 + 6) ff, — 
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft. BaT 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE Tiny Beast, Unaligned 

| STR 16 +3 +3 Dex 14 +2 +2 Сом14 +2 +2 AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) 

| INT 6 2 2 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHA7 2 -2 HP 1 (1d4 - 1) 
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3 Speed 5 ft., Fly 30 ft. 

| Senses Passive Perception 13 cee ен? MOD SAVE 
Languages None Str 2 -4 -4 Dex15 42 42 Con8 -1 -] 

| CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB 42) INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHA4 3 3 
ACTIONS Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Passive Perception 11 | 

| н 3 Languages None І 
Multiattack. The ape makes two Fist attacks. CR 0 (XP 10; PB 42) | 
Fist. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) | 
Bludgeoning damage. ACTIONS 

Rock (Recharge 6). Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing 
25/50 ft. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage. damage. 

a MÀ SETS = 


— — 
BLACK BEAR 

Medium Beast, Unaligned 

AC 11 Initiative +1 (11) 


HP 19 (3d8 + 6) 
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft., Swim 30 ft. 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


BADGER 
Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 11 Initiative +0 (10) 


HP 5 (1d4 + 3) 
Speed 20 ft., Burrow 5 ft. | 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


Str 10 +0 +0 рех 11 +0 +0 Сом16 +3 +3 | 
| INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHa5 -3 -3 | 


| STR 15 +2 +2 рех 12 +1 +1 Сом 14 +2 +2 
| INT 2 SAA Wis 12 +1 +1. CHA 7 =2 22 


Skills Perception 4-5 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 15 


Skills Perception +3 


| Resistances Poison 

| Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 13 
| Languages None 

|| CRO (XP 10; РВ +2) 


Languages None 
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2) 


ACTIONS DENT 
Multiattack. The bear makes two fend attacks. 


Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, react 5 ft. Hit: 5 (146 + 2) 
Slashing damage. 


. ‚ ACTIONS 
| Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing 
| damage. 


uS APPENDIX B | CREATURE STAT BLOCKS 


JONAY 


| Medium Beast, Unaligned 


АС 11 Initiative +0 (10) 
НР 13 (248 + 4) 
| Speed 40 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 13 +1 +1 Dex 11 +0 +0 Conl4 +2 +2 
inr 2 4 24| Wis 9 =) 28 cus ШЗ 


Senses Passive Perception 9 
Languages None 
| CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) 


| TRAITS 


| Bloodied Fury. While Bloodied, the boar has Advantage 
| on attack rolls. 


| ACTIONS 


Gore. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) 

| Piercing damage. If the boar moved at least 20 feet | 
| straight toward the target immediately before the hit, 

| the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) Piercing damage and, 
poop A 

| ifitis Large or smaller, has the Prone condition. 


| BROWN BEAR 

| Large Beast, Unaligned 
АСТ 

| HP 22 (3910 + 6) 

| Speed 40 ft., Climb 30 ft. 


Initiative +1 (11) 


| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
| бтв 17 43 +3 DEex 12 +1 +1 Сом15 +2 +2 
| INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 13 +1 +1 СнА7 -2 -2 


| Skills Perception +3 

| Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 
Languages None 

! CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2) 


ll 


| ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The bear makes one Bite attack and one 
Claw attack. 


| à 
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) 
Piercing damage. 


Claw. |4:!/ee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 
Slashin: damage, and the target has the Prone condi- 
tion if it is Huge or smaller. 


y 
CAMEL | 
Large Beast, Unaligned | 
АС 10 Initiative -1 (9) | 
HP 17 (2d10 + 6) ! 
Speed 50 ft. | 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE | 

STR 15 42 42 Dex 8 A -1 Сом17 +3 +5 


INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 11 +0 40. CHA 5 =3 -3 | 


Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 
Languages None 
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2) | 


ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 2) | | 
Bludgeoning damage. | 
є hDlZA. GC у. 20 


(C o AED m 
| CAT | 
Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) | 
HP 2 (1d4) | 
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft. | 

| 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE ff 


Str 3 -4 -4 Dexl5 42 +4 Сом10 +0 +0 | — 
Int 3-4 -4 Wis 12 4 4 CHA? 2-2 | 

Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4 | 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 


| Languages None 
CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2) 


| TRAITS 
| Jumper. The cat's jump distance is determined using its 
| Dexterity rather than its Strength. 

| ACTIONS 


Scratch. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Slash- 
| ing damage. 


j 
i 
І 
) 


| 


| AC 13 
HP 13 (2d10 + 2) 
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 15 42 42 Оех 14 +2 +2 Сом12 +1 + 
-5 -5 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA 3 -4 -4 


| Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) 


| Constrict. Strength Saving Throw: DC 12, one Medium 


Crocopire 


CONSTRICTOR SNAKE 


Large Beast, Unaligned 
Initiative +2 (12) 


Int 1 


Skills Perception +2, Stealth +4 

Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Passive Perception 12 
Languages None 

CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) 


ACTIONS 


Piercing damage. 


or smaller creature the snake can see within 5 feet. Fail- 
ure: 7 (344) Bludgeoning damage, and the target has 
the Grappled condition (escape DC 12). 


Н 


| Speed 20 ft., Swim 20 ft. 


Tiny Beast, Unaligned 


АС 11 
HP 3 (1d4 +1) 


Initiative +0 (10) 


MOD з SAVE MOD 2802 MOD SAVE | 

| Stk 6 -2 -2 Окх11 +0 +0 Сом12 +1 +1 | 
Int 1 5-5 Wis 8 2b Cha? -4 -4 | 
Skills Stealth +2 | 

| Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Passive Perception 9 | 
Languages None | 
CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2) | 


| Traits 
Amphibious. The crab can breathe air and water. 


ACTIONS 


Clav. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Bludgeon- 


v 
PM y 


Speed 20 ft., Swim 30 ft. 


| for 1 hour. 


es = = —J 
paes = 
DiRE WoLF | 
Large Beast, Unaligned 
AC 14 Initiative +2 (12) 
HP 22 (3d10 + 6) 

Speed 50 ft. | 
| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE | 
Str 17 43 43 Dex 15 42 42 Сом 15 +2 +2 
INT 3 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHA7 -2 2 


E a E = dim 
лт r 
CROCODILE mm 


Large Beast, Unaligned 


AC 12 
HP 13 (2d10 + 2) 


Initiative +0 (10) 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
| Str 15 42 42 Dex 10 +0 +0 CoN]3 A 43 
INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA 5 -3 3 


Skills Stealth +2 

Senses Passive Perception 10 
Languages None 

CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2) 


TRAITS 
Hold Breath. The crocodile can hold its breath 


ACTIONS 
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) 
Piercing damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, 
it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 12). While 
Grappled, the target has the Restrained condition. 


Skills Perception +5, Stealth +4 

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 15 
Languages None 

CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2) 


| TRAITS 
| Pack Tactics. The wolf has Advantage on an attack roll 


against a creature if at least one of the wolf's allies is 


| within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have 
| the Incapacitated condition. 


| tion if it is Huge or smaller. 


ACTIONS iiid 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 8 (1d10 + 3) 
Piercing damage, and the target has the Prone condi- 


FroG 


= 
DRAFT HORSE 
Large Beast, Unaligned 
AC 10 
HP 15 (2d10 + 4) 
Speed 40 ft. 

MOD SAVE 


Str 18 +4 +4 
INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 11 +0 +0 CHa 7 


Initiative +0 (10) 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


Dex 10 +0 +0 Сом15 +2 42 
-2 


=2 


| Senses Passive Perception 10 
| Languages None 
| CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) 


| ACTIONS 


| Hooves. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d4 
| + 4) Bludgeoning damage. 


fp 


( ТЕ EE 
ELEPHANT 

| Huge Beast, Unaligned 

| AC 12 Initiative —1 (9) 

| HP 76 (8412 + 24) 

! Speed 40 ft. 

| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 

| Str 22 +6 +6 Dex 9 -1 -~l CoNT +3 +3 

| INT 3 -4 -4 Wis 11 +0 +0 CHa6 2 -2 


Senses Passive Perception 10 
Languages None 

CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2) 
ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The elephant makes two Gore attacks. 


Gore. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) 
Piercing damage. If the elephant moved at least 20 feet 
straight toward the target immediately before the hit, 
the target also has the Prone condition. 


BONUS Ac: TIONS 


Trample. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature 


within 5 feet that has the Prone condition. Failure: 17 


Success: Half damage. | 


Large Beast, Unaligned 


AC 10 Initiative +0 (10) 
HP 11 (2d10) 
Speed 50 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
STR 16 +3 43 Dex 10 +0 40 Сом1 +0 +0 


INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA 6 zm» 


Skills Perception 42 

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 
Languages None 

| CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB 42) 


ACTIONS | 


TUNI DUNS 
Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) | 
Bludgeoning damage. If the elk moved at least 20 feet 
straight toward the target immediately before the hit, 

the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) Bludgeoning damage 
and, if it is Huge or smaller, has the Prone condition. 


==—======————==—=—=———————————————————— 


FROG 
Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 11 Initiative +1 (11) 
HP 1 (1d4 - 1) 
Speed 20 ft., Swim 20 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 1 -5 -5 рех 13 +1 +1 Cong -1 -A 
INT 1 -5 -5 Wis 8 -1 -1 CHa3 -4 -4 


Skills Perception +1, Stealth +3 

Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 11 
Languages None 

CRO (XP 10; PB +2) 


TRAITS 
Amphibious. The frog can breathe air and water. 


| Standing Leap. The frog's Long Jump is up to 10 feet 
| and its High Jump is up to 5 feet with or without a run- 


| Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing 
| damage. 


| t 
Vi 


APPENDIX В | CREATURE STAT BLOCKS 4 949 


Ae 67 oM o PPP utt RA 


| S. РА " Я SAN ey i j* 
UU, рих BOREATURE. 


ro ` 


Giant BADGER 


EX 


| | GIANT GOAT 


GiANT BADGER 
е) Medium Beast, Unaligned 

| AC 13 Initiative +0 (10) 
| HP 15 (2d8 « 6) 

| Speed 30 ft., Burrow 10 ft. 


| 
| 
| 
| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| Skills Perception +3 
| . А 
| Resistances Poison 


i 

| 

| Languages None 

| CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) 
| ACTIONS 

| 
| Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 
| Piercing damage. 


| STR 13 +1 «1 Dex 10 +0 +0 Сом17 43 43 
| INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHA 5 


| Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 
| and, if it is Huge or smaller, has the Prone condition. 


Large Beast, Unaligned 

AC 11 Initiative +1 (11) 

HP 19 (3d10 + 3) 

Speed 40 ft., Climb 30 ft. » 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 1 

SrR 17 43 +5  DEX 13 +1 +1 Сом12 A + 

INT 3 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHA 6 -2 -2 


Skills Perception +3 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 


Languages None 
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2) 


ACTIONS | 
Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) | 
Bludgeoning damage. If the goat moved at least 20 feet 
straight toward the target immediately before the hit, 
the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) Bludgeoning damage 


| 
| 


| 


= — = = — 


ss 
GIANT SEAHORSE 


| 

X / 
| GIANT CRAB 

| Medium Beast, Unaligned 

| AC 15 Initiative +1 (11) 

| HP 13 (3d8) 

[ Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft. 

| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| Stk 13 41 +1 Drx]3 +1 +1 ConTl +0 +0 
INT 1 -5 -5 Wis 9 -1 -1 CHa 3 


| 
! Skills Stealth +3 


| Languages None 
| CR 1/8 (25 XP; PB +2) 


TRAITS 


ACTIONS 


| one target. 


Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Passive Perception 9 


Amphibious. The crab can breathe air and water. 


Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) 
Bludgeoning damage. If the target is Medium or 
smaller, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 11). 
The crab has two claws, each of which can grapple 


Large Beast, Unaligned 
AC 14 Initiative 4-1 (11) 
HP 16 (3d10) 
Speed 5 ft., Swim 40 ft. 
| 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE | 


Str 15 42 42 Dex12 +1 +1 Сом11 +0 +0 
INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHA 5 -3 -3 


Senses Passive Perception 11 | 
Languages None 
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2) 


TRAITS 
Water Breathing. The seahorse can breathe only 
underwater. 


ACTIONS 

Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 9 (246 + 2) 
Bludgeoning damage, or the seahorse deals 11 (2d8 
4 2) Bludgeoning damage if it moved at least 20 feet 
straight toward the target immediately before the hit. 


Bonus ACTIONS ED 


Bubble Dash. While underwater, the seahorse moves 
up to half its Swim Speed without provoking Opportu- 
nity Attacks. 


WAYNE ENGLAND 


| GIANT SPIDER 
| Large Beast, Unaligned 
AC 14 Initiative +3 (13) 
HP 26 (4d10 + 4) 
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft. 
| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
| Str 14 +2 +2 Dex16 +3 +3 Сом12 41 +1 


INT 2 


Skills Perception +4, Stealth +7 

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 14 
Languages None 

| CR 1 (XP 200; РВ +2) 


TRAITS 


Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces, 


including along ceilings, without needing to make an 
ability check. 


Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restrictions 
caused by webs, and it knows the location of any other 


creature in contact with the same web. 


ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) 
Piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) Poison damage. 


Web (Recharge 5-6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 13, 


one creature the spider can see within 60 feet. Failure: 
The target has the Restrained condition until the web is 
destroyed (AC 10; HP 5; Vulnerability to Fire damage; 


Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage). 


m |, 


? 


-4 -4 Wis 11 «0 40 CHA4 -3 -3 


GIANT WEASEL 
Medium Beast, Unaligned 


АС 13 
HP 9 (2d8) 


Initiative +3 (13) 


Speed 40 ft., Climb 30 ft. 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 11 +0 +0 Dex17 +3 43 Сом10 +0 +0 
INT 4 23.23. Wis 12 +141) CHa 5 535-3 


Skills Acrobatics +5, Perception +3, Stealth +5 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 
Languages None 

CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2) 


ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 
Piercing damage. 


— A _„ 
| GOAT 
Medium Beast, Unaligned 
AC 10 Initiative +0 (10) 
HP 4 (1d8) 
Speed 40 ft., Climb 30 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


Sm 11 40 +2. Dex 10 40 40 Сом хо] 
| Int 2 -4 -4 Wis 10 40 +0 Сна 5 3083 


| 

@ | Skills Perception +2 

| | | Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 
| | Languages None 

| 


CRO (XP 10; PB 42) 
| 


| | AcrioNs 

| | Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: | Bludgeon- 
ing damage, or the goat deals 2 (1d4) Bludgeoning 
damage if it moved at least 20 feet straight toward the 

target immediately before the hit. | 


n 


—— 


LI -———— 


| Tiny Beast, Unaligned 


AC 13 Initiative +3 (13) 
HP 1 (1d4 - 1) 
Speed 10 ft., Fly 60 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
-1 -1 


Str 5 —3 -3 Dex16 +3 +3 Con 8 
INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHa 6 -2 -2 


Skills Perception +6 

Senses Passive Perception 16 
Languages None 

CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2) 


ACTIONS 
Talons. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Slash- 
ing damage. 


к. 
==, 
IMP 
| Tiny Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil 
| AC 13 Initiative +3 (13) 


HP 21 (6d4 + 6) 
Speed 20 ft., Fly 40 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


Str 6 -2 -2 Dex +3 +3 Сом13 4 + 
| INT 11 +0 +0 Wis 12 + +1 CHA14 42 +2 


MOD SAVE 


Skills Deception +4, Insight +3, Stealth +5 
| Resistances Cold 
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned 
| Senses Darkvision 120 ft., Passive Perception 11 
Languages Common, Infernal 


CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2) 


TRAITS 

Devil's Sight. Magical Darkness doesn't impede the 
imp’s Darkvision. 

Magic Resistance. The imp has Advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects. 


ACTIONS 


| Sting. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) 

| Piercing damage plus 7 (246) Poison damage. 

| Invisibility. The imp casts Invisibility on itself, requiring 
| no spell components and using Charisma as the spell- 


casting ability. 


| Shape-Shift. The imp shape-shifts to resemble a rat 
|| (Speed 20 ft.), a raven (20 ft., Fly 60 ft.), or a spider 

| (20 ft., Climb 20 ft.), or it returns to its true form. Its 

| statistics are the same in each form, except for its 

! Speed. Any equipment it's wearing or carrying isn't 

| transformed. 


APPENDIX B| CREATURE STAT BLOCKS 


[Lion 


Large Beast, Unaligned 


AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) 
HP 22 (4d10) 
Speed 50 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


Str 17 +3 +3 Dex 15 +2 +2 Сом11 +0 +0 
Int 3 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHAS8 -1 -] 


Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4 | 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 
Languages None 

CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2) | 


TRAITS 

Pack Tactics. The lion has Advantage on an attack roll 
against a creature if at least one of the lion's allies is 
within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have 
the Incapacitated condition. 


Running Leap. With a 10-foot running start, the lion 
can Long Jump up to 25 feet. 


ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The lion makes two Rend attacks. It can 
replace one of these attacks with a use of Roar. 


Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) 
Slashing damage. 

Roar. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 11, one creature within 
15 feet. Failure: The target has the Frightened condition 
until the start of the lion's next turn. 


RUSSE 


—LLL- ee N 


MASTIFF 


LIZARD 
Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 10 Initiative +0 (10) 
HP 2 (1d4) 
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 2 -4 -4 Dex 11 +0 +0 Сом10 +0 +0 
INT ] -5 -5 Wis 8 -1 -1 CHA3 -4 -4 


Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 9 
Languages None 
CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2) 


TRAITS 


Spider Climb. The lizard can climb difficult surfaces, 
including along ceilings, without needing to make an 
ability check. 


ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing 


damage. 
e J 


MASTIFF 


Medium Beast, Unaligned 
AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) 
HP 5 (1d8 + 1) 
Speed 40 ft. 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 13 +1 +1 Dex 14 +2 +2 Сом12 +1 +] 
Int 3 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 +2 CHA7 2 -2 
Skills Perception +5 


Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 15 
Languages None 
CR 1/8 (ХР 25; PB +2) 


Actions 
Bite. Меісе Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (146 + 1) 


Piercing damage, and the target has the Prone condi- 
tion if it is Large or smaller. 


[$ 2) Bludgeoning damage. 


— 
Octopus 


Medium Beast, Unaligned 


| 
| 
Initiative +0 (10) | 


АС 10 

HP 11 (248 + 2) 

Speed 40 ft. | 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE | 

STR 14 42 +4 Dex10 +0 +0 Сом13 41 +1 | 


INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA 5 3 -3 


Languages None 


| 

Senses Passive Perception 10 | 
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2) | 
| 


TRAITS 


Beast of Burden. The mule counts as one size larger for | 
the purpose of determining its carrying capacity. 


ACTIONS | 
Hooves. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 | 


Small Beast, Unaligned 


AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) \ 
HP 3 (146) | 
Speed 5 ft., Swim 30 ft. | 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 4 -3 -3 Dex15 +2 +2 Conll +0 +0 


Int 3 -4 -4 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHa4 3 -3 


Skills Perception +2, Stealth +6 

Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 12 
Languages None 

CRO (XP 10; PB +2) 

TRAITS 


Compression. The octopus can move through a space 
as narrow as 1 inch without squeezing. 


Water Breathing. The octopus can breathe only 
underwater. 


ACTIONS 


Tentacles. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Blud- 
geoning damage. 


REACTIONS 


NEACUON HS CL — 
Ink Cloud (1/Day). Trigger: A creature ends its turn | 
| within 5 feet of the octopus while underwater. Response: | 
The octopus releases ink that fills a 5-foot Cube cen- | 
| tered on itself, and the octopus moves up to its Swim 


APPENDIX B | CREATURE STAT BLOCKS 


ET 


е 
PONY 
Medium Beast, Unaligned 

P AC 10 Initiative +0 (10) 
OwL HP 11 (2d8 + 2) 
Tiny Beast, Unaligned Speed 40 ft. 

AC 11 Initiative +1 (11) MOD. SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
HP 1 (1d4 - 1) Str 15 42 +4 Dex10 +0 +0 Сом13 + +1 
Speed 5 ft., Fly 60 ft. INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 11 +0 +0 CHA 7 -2 —2 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE . А 
Str 3 -4 -4 Dex13 4] +1 Con8 -~l -l Senses Passive Perception 10 
m cuu E A Languages None 

INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 12 +1 + HA CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB 42) 

Skills Perception +5, Stealth +5 

Senses Darkvision 120 ft., Passive Perception 15 ACTIONS c e 
Languages None Hooves. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 

| CRO (XP 10; PB +2) + 2) Bludgeoning damage. 
M d 
* TRAITS r 
| Flyby. The owl doesn’t provoke Opportunity Attacks PSEUDODRAGON 


when it flies out of an enemy's reach. Tiny Dragon, Neutral Good 
ACTIONS AC 14 Initiative +2 (12) 


HP 10 (3d4 + 3) 
Speed 15 ft., Fly 60 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


Str 6 -2 -2 рех 15 42 +2 Сом13 4] +] 
INT 10 +0 +0 Wis 12 +1 +1 СнА 10 +0 +0 


Talons. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Slash- 
ing damage. 


PANTHER 
Medium Beast, Unaligned 


Skills Perception +5, Stealth +4 
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft., 


AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) 

HP 13 (3d8) Passive Perception 15 

Speed 50 ft., Climb 40 ft. Languages Understands Common and Draconic but 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE can’t speak 


Str 14 42 42 Dex15 42 +2 Сом10 +0 +0 CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) 


INT 3 -4 -4 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHA7 -2 2 


TRAITS 


Magic Resistance. The pseudodragon has Advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical effects. 


Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6 
| Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 14 
| Languages None 


| CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) | ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The pseudodragon makes two Bite attacks. 


| Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) 
| Piercing damage. 


| ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The panther makes one Pounce attack and | 
uses Prowl. | 


| Pounce, Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (144 
+ 2) Slashing damage, or the panther deals 7 (2d4 + 2) 
Slashing damage if it had Advantage on the attack roll. 


Prowl. The panther moves up to half its Speed with- 
| out provoking Opportunity Attacks. At the end of this 
| movement, the panther can take the Hide action. 


| Sting. Constitution Saving Throw: DC 12, one creature 

| the pseudodragon can see within 5 feet. Failure: 5 (2d4 
| + 2) Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned 

| condition for 1 hour. Failure by 5 or More: The Poi- 
soned target also has the Unconscious condition until 
it takes damage or another creature takes an action to 
shake it awake. 


ADAM VENGE 


BORJA PINDADO 


QUASIT 
Tiny Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil 
AC 13 Initiative +3 (13) 
HP 25 (10d4) 
| Speed 40 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 5 -3 -3 DEx +3 «3 Сом10 +0 +0 
INT 7 -2 -2 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA10 +0 +0 


Skills Stealth +5 

| Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning 

Immunities Poison; Poisoned 

Senses Darkvision 120 ft., Passive Perception 10 
Languages Abyssal, Common 

CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2) 


TRAITS 


throws against spells and other magical effects. 


ACTIONS 


Slashing damage, and the target has the Poisoned con- 
dition until the start of the quasit’s next turn. 


Invisibility. The quasit casts Invisibility on itself, requir- 
ing no spell components and using Charisma as the 
spellcasting ability. 


Scare (1/Day). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 10, one crea- 
ture within 20 feet. Failure: The target has the Fright- 
ened condition. At the end of each of its turns, the 
target repeats the save, ending the effect on itself on a 
success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically. 


Shape-Shift. The quasit shape-shifts to resemble a bat 
(Speed 10 ft., Fly 40 ft.), a centipede (40 ft., Climb 40 
ft.), or a toad (40 ft., Swim 40 ft.), or it returns to its 
true form. Its statistics are the same in each form, ex- 
cept fo: its Speed. Any equipment it's wearing or carry- 
ing isn't transformed. 


Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 10 Initiative +0 (10) 
HP 1 (144-1) 
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE И 
`\ | Stk 2 -4-4 рехт 40 +0 Cond —1 1 | 


Magic Resistance. The quasit has Advantage on saving 


Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 


RAT 


INT 2 -4 -4 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA 4 -3 -3 


Skills Perception +2 

Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 12 
Languages None 

CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2) 


TRAITS 


Agile. The rat doesn’t provoke Opportunity Attacks 
when it moves out of an enemy’s reach. 


ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing 
damage. 


poo 
RAVEN 

Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 12 

HP 2 (1d4) 

Speed 10 ft., Fly 50 ft. 


Initiative +2 (12) 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE | 


Sm 2 -4 -4 Dex M 42 42 Сом10 40 40 | 
мт 5 3 3 WsBd 4 Сна 6 2—2 


Skills Perception +3 

| Senses Passive Perception 13 
| Languages None 

CRO (XP 10; PB +2) 


| TRAITS 


Mimicry. The raven can mimic simple sounds it has 
heard, such as a whisper or chitter. A hearer can dis- 

| cern the sounds are imitations with a successful DC 10 
Wisdom (Insight) check. 


| ACTIONS 


Beak. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing — 
damage. $ 


$ 
» 


homm cU m oo Р? 


CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2) 


| TRAITS 


| 
the Incapacitated condition. 


| 
| ACTIONS 
| Piercing damage. 


| Pack Tactics. The shark has Advantage on an attack roll 


| against a creature if at least one of the shark's allies is 
| within 5 feet ofthe creature and the ally doesn't have damage plus 3 (1d6) Poison damage. | 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 7 (244 + 2) 


[ REEF SHARK 
З : = 
| Medium Beast, Unaligned n ff SCORPION талас 
AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) - - 
| HP 22 (4d8 + 4) Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
| Speed 5 ft., Swim 30 ft. AC 11 Initiative +0 (10) 
| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE HP 1 (1d4 - 1) 
| SrR 14 +2 42 Dix 15 +2 +2 Сом13 +1 + Speed 10 ft. 
| INT 1 -5 -5 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA 4 -3 -3 MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
m І nur Str 2 -4 -4 Dexll +0 +0 Con8 -1 1 
| Skills Perception + vant dE 
| Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Passive Perception 12 Nr. ESMEOE Wis 5 БЛА Сна 2, A 
| Languages None Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Passive Perception 9 
Languages None 


CR 0 (XP 10; PB +2) 


ACTIONS 
ыы кс = Á€— 
Sting. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing 


Nu 


=== 


Water Breathing. Тһе shark can breathe only underwater. 
SKELETON 


Medium Undead, Lawful Evil 
AC 13 Initiative +3 (13) 
HP 13 (248 + 4) 


e—a ee 
Speed 30 ft. 


pee —— 
| RIDING HORSE 


Large Beast, Unaligned 


! ACTI Initiative +1 (11) 
| HP 13 (2d10 + 2) 

! Speed 60 ft. 

| MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| бтв 16 43 +3 Оех 13 +1 +1 Сом12 
INT 2 -4 -4 Wisi] +0 +0 CHA 7 


| Senses Passive Perception 10 
| Languages None 
| CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) 


| + 3) Bludgeoning damage. 


| Hooves, Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 7 (1d8 


7) MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| | Stk 10 40 +0 Оех 16 +3 43 Сом15 42 42 
INT 6 2-2 Wis 8 -1 -1. CHA 5 -3 -3 
| | Vulnerabilities Bludgeoning 


Immunities Poison; Exhaustion, Poisoned 
Gear Shortbow, Shortsword 


ed ге | | Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 9 
Ic, ih Languages Understands the languages it knew in life 
-2 2 but can't speak 


| 
| | CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2) 


BCUONS © o 
Shortsword. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 
(1d6 + 3) Piercing damage. 

Shortbow. Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range 80/320 ft. Hit: 
6 (1d6 + 3) Piercing damage. 


J oHG | APPENDIX В | CREATURE STAT BLOCKS _ 


Staao Taorore 


STRUCA 


VIDA 


DANEEN WILKERSON 


| SLAAD TADPOLE 
Tiny Aberration, Chaotic Neutral 


AC 12 Initiative +2 (12) 
| HP 7 (3d4) 
| Speed 30 ft., Burrow 10 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 7 -2 -2 Dex15 +2 42 Сом10 +0 +0 
INT 3 -4 -4 Wis 5 -3 -3 CHA3 -4 -4 


Skills Stealth +4 
Resistances Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Thunder 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 7 
Languages Understands Slaad but can’t speak 
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2) 


TRAITS 

Magic Resistance. The slaad has Advantage on saving 

throws against spells and other magical effects. 
ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) 
| Piercing damage. 
‚ ne 


= 
SPHINX OF WONDER 
Tiny Celestial, Lawful Good 


AC 13 Initiative +3 (13) 
HP 24 (7d4 + 7) 
Speed 20 ft., Fly 40 ft. 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
Str 6 -2 -2 Dex 7 +3 +3 Сом13 +1 +1 
INT 15 +2 +2 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHA Tl +0 +0) 


Skills Arcana +4, Religion +4, Stealth +5 


Resistances Necrotic, Psychic, Radiant 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 11 
Languages Celestial, Common 
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2) 


TRAITS 


Magic Resistance. The sphinx has Advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects. 


ACTIONS 
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) 
Slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) Radiant damage. 


REACTIONS 
Burst of Ingenuity (2/Day). Trigger: The sphinx or an- 


other creature within 30 feet makes an ability check or a 


saving throw. Response: The sphinx adds 2 to the roll. 


SpHinx оғ WONDER 


SPIDER 

Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 12 

HP 1 (144-1) 
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft. 

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE. MOD SAVE | 

Stk 2 -4 -4 Dex 14 +2 +2 Cong -l A | 
INr 1 -5 -5 Wis 10 40 +0 CHA 2 =4 -4 | 


Skills Stealth +4 

Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 10 
Languages None 

CRO (XP 10; PB +2) 


Initiative +2 (12) | 
| 
i 


| 


TRAITS 
Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces, 


| including along ceilings, without needing to make an 
| ability check. 


| Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restrictions 
| caused by webs, and the spider knows the location of 
any other creature in contact with the same web. 


ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing 
damage plus 2 (1d4) Poison damage. 


Sprite 


| SPRITE 


Tiny Fey, Neutral Good 
| AC 15 Initiative +4 (14) 
| HP 10 (4d4) 
| Speed 10 ft., Fly 40 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


| Stk 3 -4 -4 Dex18 +4 +4 Сом10 +0 +0 


| Int 14 42 +2 Wis 13 41 +1 Call +0 30 


| Skills Perception +3, Stealth +8 
| Senses Passive Perception 13 


Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan | 
СЕ 1/4 (ХР 50; РВ +2) | 


ACTIONS | 


Needle Sword. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 
(1d4 + 4) Piercing damage. 


Enchanting Bow. Ranged Attack Roll: +6, range 
40/160 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing damage, and the target has 
the Charmed condition until the start of the sprite's 
next turn. 


| Heart Sight. Charisma Saving Throw: DC 10, one crea- 

ture within 5 feet the sprite can see. Celestials, Fiends, 

ndead automatically fail the save. Failure: The 
target's emotions Шш. 


TiGER 

Large Beast, Unaligned 
AC 13 

HP 22 (3d10 + 6) 
Speed 40 ft. 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 


Str 17 +3 +3 Dex 16 +3 +3 
-4 -4 Wis 12 + 


Initiative +3 (13) 


MOD SAVE 
Сом 14 +2 42 
CHA 8 -1 -1 


INT 3 +1 


Skills Perception +3, Stealth +7 

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 
Languages None 

CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2) 


ACTIONS 


Multiattack. The tiger makes one Pounce attack and 
uses Prowl. 


Pounce. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d6 

+ 3) Slashing damage. If the tiger had Advantage on 
the attack roll, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) Slash- 
ing damage and, if it is Huge or smaller, has the Prone 
condition. 


Prowl. The tiger moves up to half its Speed without 
provoking Opportunity Attacks. At the end of this 


movement, the tiger can take the Hide action. 


| VENOMOUS SNAKE 
Tiny Beast, Unaligned 

| AC 12 

| HP 5 (2d4) 

| Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft. 


MOD SAVE. MOD SAVE MOD SAVE | 


| $m m2 EE -4 Оех 15 42 42 Сом1 40 40 | -— 
Wnt 1 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHA з <4 | _ 


Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Passive Perception 10 
Languages None 
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2) 


Initiative +2 (12) 


oll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) 
(146) Polson damage. 


um Beast, Unaligned 


2| Ac 12 Initiative +2 (12) \ 
| НР11 (2d8 + 2) | 
Speed 40 ft. 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE. .MOD SAVE | | 
STR 14 +2 +2 Dex15 +2 +2 Сом12 +1 +1 i 
Int 3 -4 EN Wis 12 ES EU Я СнА 6 2 E 
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +4 
- Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 15 
Languages None 
ARHORSE TUE 
W | СЕ 1/4 (ХР 50; РВ +2) 
Large Beast, Unaligned | 
АС 11 Initiative 41 (11) TRaliis | 
HP 19 (3d10 + 3) Pack Tactics. The wolf has Advantage on attack rolls | 
Speed 60 ft. against a creature if at least one of the wolf's allies is | 
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn’t have | 


Str 18 +4 +4  DEx 12 +1 +1 Сом13 A +1 
INT 2 -4 -4, Wis 12 ШШ 83 CHa 7 1210228 


the Incapacitated condition. 


ACTIONS 


Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) | 
Piercing damage, and the target has the Prone condi- 
tion if it is Medium or smaller. | 


Senses Passive Perception 11 
Languages None 
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2) 


ACTIONS 


Hooves. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. Hit: 9 (2d4 
4 4) Bludgeoning damage. If the horse moved at least 
20 feet straight toward the target immediately before 


ZOMBIE | 
Medium Undead, Neutral Evil 


the hit, the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) Bludgeoning AC8 Initiative —2 (8) 
damage and, if it is Huge or smaller, has the Prone | HP 15 (2d8 « 6) 
condition. | Speed 20 ft. 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE 
PON, VOR e 


Б Sr 13 ё Dex 6 = z 


WEASEL 
Tiny Beast, Unaligned 
AC 13 Initiative +3 (13) 


HP 1 (1d4 - 1) | peer Understands the een it knew in life 
| Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft. but can’t speak 


MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SANE | 


Str 3 —4 -4 Юех 16 43 +3  CoN8 al 
| inr 2 -4 -4 | Wis 12 +1 Hl) CHa 3 = 


| Skills Acrobatics +5, Perception +3, Stealth +5 

E E || Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 
E Languages None 

|... | CRO (XP 10; PB +2) 


TRAITS 


Undead Fortitude. \f damage reduces the zombie to 0 
Hit Points, it must make a Constitution saving throw 
| with a DC of 5 plus the damage taken unless the dam- - 
age is Radiant or from a Critical Hit. On a successful | 
save, the zombie drops to 1 Hit Point instead. 


tcs 


APPENDIX C 


GLOSSARY CONVENTIONS 
The glossary uses the following conventions: 


Tags in Brackets. Some entries have a tag in brack- 
ets after the entry's name, as in "Attack [Action].” 
A tag—Action, Area of Effect, Attitude, Condition, 
or Hazard—indicates that a rule is part of a family 
of rules. The tags also have glossary entries. 

*You." The game's rules—in this glossary and else- 
where—often talk about something happening to 
you in the game world. That "you" refers to the 
creature or object that the rule applies to in a par- 
ticular moment of play. For example, the "you" in 
the Prone condition is a creature that currently 
has that condition. 

"See Also." Some glossary entries include a See also 
section that points to other entries in the glossary, 
to chapters in this book, or both. 

No Obsolete Terms. The glossary contains defini- 
tions of current rules terms only. If you're looking 
for a term from an earlier version of the fifth edi- 
tion rules, consult the index. 

Abbreviations. The abbreviations listed below ap- 
pear in this glossary and elsewhere in the rules. 


AC Armor Class M Material 

С Concentration component 

CE Chaotic Evil N Neutral 

СС Chaotic Good NE Neutral Evil 

Cha. Charisma NG Neutral Good 

CN Chaotic Neutral МРС Nonplayer 

Con. Constitution character 

CP Copper Piece(s) PB Proficiency 

CR Challenge Rating Bonus ; 

DC Difficulty Class PP Platinum Piece(s) 

; R Ritual 

Dex. Dexterity , 

DM Dungeon Master Somatic 
component 


ЕР Electrum Piece(s) SP Silver Piece(s) 


— 


GP Gold Piece(s) Str. Strength 
HP Hit Point(s) ү Verbal 

Int. Intelligence component 
LE Lawful Evil Wis. Wisdom 
LG Lawful Good XP Experience 


LN Lawful Neutral 


RE e T RE | RULES GLOSSARY 


Point(s) 


A Af 


RULES DEFINITIONS 


Here are definitions of various rules. 


ABILITY CHECK 

An ability check is a D20 Test that represents using 
one of the six abilities—or a specific skill associated 
with an ability—to overcome a challenge. See also 
chapter 1 (“D20 Tests” and “Proficiency”). 


ABILITY SCORE AND MODIFIER 

A creature has six ability scores—Strength, Dexter- 
ity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Cha- 
risma—each of which has a corresponding modifier. 
Add the modifier when you make a D20 Test with 
the corresponding ability or when a rule asks you to 
do so. See also chapter 1 ("The Six Abilities”). 


ACTION 

On your turn, you can take one action. Choose 
which action to take from those below or from the 
special actions provided by your features. See also 
chapter 1 ("Actions"). These actions are defined else- 


where in this glossary: 


Attack Dodge Influence Search 
Dash Help Magic Study 
Disengage Hide Ready Utilize 
ADVANTAGE 


If you have Advantage on a D20 Test, roll two d20s, 
and use the higher roll. A roll can't be affected by 
more than one Advantage, and Advantage and Dis- 
advantage on the same roll cancel each other. See 
also chapter 1 (“D20 Tests"). 


ADVENTURE 
An adventure is a series of encounters. A story 
emerges through playing them. See also “Encounter.” 


ALIGNMENT 

A creature's alignment broadly describes its ethical 
attitudes and ideals. Alignment is a combination of 
two factors: one identifies morality (good, evil, or 
neutral), and the other describes attitudes toward 


order (lawful, chaotic, or neutral). These factors al- 
low for nine possible combinations, such as Lawful 
Good and Neutral Evil. See also chapter 2 ("Create 
Your Character"). 


ALLY 

A creature is your ally if it is a member of your 
adventuring party, your friend, on your side in 
combat, or a creature that the rules or the DM des- 
ignates as your ally. 


AREA OF EFFECT 

The descriptions of many spells and other features 
specify that they have an area of effect, which typi- 
cally has one of six shapes. These shapes are defined 
elsewhere in this glossary: 


Cone Cylinder Line 
Cube Emanation Sphere 


An area of effect has a point of origin, a location 
from which the effect's energy erupts. The rules for 
each shape specify how to position its point of ori- 
gin. If all straight lines extending from the point of 
origin to a location in the area of effect are blocked, 
that location isn't included in the area of effect. 

To block a line, an obstruction must provide Total 
Cover. See also "Cover." 

If the creator of an area of effect places it at an 
unseen point and an obstruction—such as a wall—is 
between the creator and that point, the point of 
origin comes into being on the near side of the 
obstruction. 


ARMOR CLASS 

An Armor Class (AC) is the target number for an 
attack roll. AC represents how difficult it is to hit a 
target. 

Your base AC calculation is 10 plus your Dexterity 
modifier. If a rule gives you another base AC cal- 
culation, you choose which calculation to use; you 
can't use more than one. See also "Attack Roll." 


ARMOR TRAINING 

Armor training allows you to use armor of a cer- 
tain category without the following drawbacks. If 
you wear Light, Medium, or Heavy armor and lack 
training with it, you have Disadvantage on any D20 
Test that involves Strength or Dexterity, and you 
can't cast spells. If you use a Shield and lack training 
with it, you don't gain its AC bonus. See also "Disad- 
vantage” and chapter 6 ("Armor"). 


p—————— 


ATTACK [Action] 
When you take the Attack action, you can make one 
attack roll with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike. 

Equipping and Unequipping Weapons. You can ei- 
ther equip or unequip one weapon when you make 
an attack as part of this action. You do so either 
before or after the attack. If you equip a weapon 
before an attack, you don't need to use it for that at- 
tack. Equipping a weapon includes drawing it from 
a sheath or picking it up. Unequipping a weapon 
includes sheathing, stowing, or dropping it. 

Moving between Attacks. If you move on your turn 
and have a feature, such as Extra Attack, that gives 
you more than one attack as part of the Attack ac- 
tion, you can use some or all of that movement to 
move between those attacks. 


ATTACK ROLL 


An attack roll is a D20 Test that represents making 
an attack with a weapon, an Unarmed Strike, or a 
spell. See also chapter 1 (“D20 Tests"). 


ATTITUDE 

A monster has a starting attitude toward a player 
character: Friendly, Hostile, or Indifferent. See also 
“Friendly,” “Hostile,” “Indifferent,” and “Influence.” 


ATTUNEMENT 

Some magic items require a creature to forma 
bond—called Attunement—with them before the 
creature can use an item's magical properties. A 
creature can have Attunement with no more than 
three magic items at a time. See also chapter 6 
("Magic Items"). 


BLINDED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Blinded condition, you experi- 
ence the following effects. 

Can't See. You can't see and automatically fail any 
ability check that requires sight. 

Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you 
have Advantage, and your attack rolls have 
Disadvantage. 


BLINDSIGHT 

If you have Blindsight, you can see within a specific 
range without relying on physical sight. Within that 
range, you can see anything that isn't behind Total 
Cover even if you have the Blinded condition or are 
in Darkness. Moreover, in that range, you can see 
something that has the Invisible condition. 


APPENDIX С | RULES GLOSSARY 4 361 4 


' 


BLOODIED 
A creature is Bloodied while it has half its Hit Points 


or fewer remaining. 


BONUS ACTION 

A Bonus Action is a special action that you can take 
on the same turn that you take an action. You can't 
take more than one Bonus Action on a turn, and 
you have a Bonus Action to take only if a rule ex- 
plicitly says so. See also chapter 1 ("Actions"). 


BREAKING OBJECTS 

Objects can be harmed by attacks and by some 

spells, using the rules below. If an object is exceed- 

ingly fragile, the DM may allow a creature to break 

it automatically with the Attack or Utilize action. 
Armor Class. The Object Armor Class table sug- 

gests ACs for various substances. 


OBJECT ARMOR CLASS 


AC Substance AC Substance 
11 Cloth, paper, rope 19 Iron, steel 
13 Crystal, glass, ice 21 Mithral 

15 Wood 23 Adamantine 
17 Stone 


Hit Points. An object is destroyed when it has O 
Hit Points. The Object Hit Points table suggests Hit 
Points for fragile and resilient objects that are Large 
or smaller. To track Hit Points for a Huge or Gar- 
gantuan object, divide it into Large or smaller sec- 
tions, and track each section's Hit Points separately. 
The DM determines whether destroying part of an 
object causes the whole thing to collapse. 


Овјест Hit Points 


Size Fragile Resilient 
Tiny (bottle, lock) 2(1d4) 5 (2d4) 

Small (chest, lute) 3(1d6) 10 (3d6) 
Medium (barrel, chandelier) 4 (198) 18 (4d8) 


Large (cart, dining table) 5(1d10) 27 (5910) 


Damage Types and Objects. Objects һауе Immu- 
nity to Poison and Psychic damage. The DM might 
decide that some damage types are more or less 


362 . APPENDIX C | RULES GLOSSARY 


effective against an object. For example, Bludgeon- 
ing damage works well for smashing things but not 
for cutting. Paper or cloth objects might have Vul- 

nerability to Fire damage. 

Damage Threshold. Big objects, such as castle 
walls, often have extra resilience represented by a 
damage threshold. See also "Damage Threshold." 

No Ability Scores. An object lacks ability scores 
unless a rule assigns scores to the object. Without 
ability scores, an object can't make ability checks, 
and it fails all saving throws. 


BRIGHT LIGHT 
Bright Light is normal illumination. See also chapter 


1 ("Exploration"). 


BURNING [HAZARD] 

A burning creature or object takes 1d4 Fire damage 
at the start of each of its turns. As an action, you 
can extinguish fire on yourself by giving yourself 
the Prone condition and rolling on the ground. 

The fire also goes out if it is doused, submerged, or 


suffocated. 


BURROW SPEED 

A creature that has a Burrow Speed can use that 
speed to move through sand, earth, mud, or ice. The 
creature can't burrow through solid rock unless the 
creature has a trait that allows it to do so. See also 


"Speed." 


CAMPAIGN 
A campaign is a series of adventures. See also 
"Adventure." 


CANTRIP 
A cantrip is a level O spell, which is cast without a 
spell slot. See also chapter 7. 


CARRYING CAPACITY 

Your size and Strength score deter;nine the maxi- 
mum weight in pounds that you can carry, as shown 
in the Carrying Capacity table. The table also shows 
the maximum weight you can dres., fiit, or push. 


RAHMAN 


чоо 


While dragging, lifting, or pushing weight in ex- 
cess of the maximum weight you can carry, your 
Speed can be no more than 5 feet. 


CARRYING CAPACITY 


Creature Size Carry Drag/Lift/Push 
Tiny Str. x 7.5 Ib. Str. x 15 Ib. 
Small/Medium Str. x 15 Ib. Str. x 30 Ib. 
Large Str. x 30 Ib. Str. x 60 Ib. 
Huge Str. x 60 Ib. Str. x 120 Ib. 
Gargantuan Str. x 120 Ib. — Str. x 240 Ib. 


CHALLENGE RATING 

Challenge Rating (CR) summarizes the threat a 
monster poses to a group of four player characters. 
Compare a monster's CR to the characters' level. 

If the CR is higher, the monster is likely a danger. 
If the CR is lower, the monster likely poses little 
threat. But circumstances and the number of player 
characters can significantly alter how threatening 
a monster is in actual play. The Dungeon Master's 
Guide provides guidance to the DM on using CR 
while planning potential combat encounters. See 
also "Stat Block." 


CHARACTER SHEET 

A character sheet is a paper or digital record that 
you use to track your character's information. See 
also chapter 2. 


CHARMED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Charmed condition, you experi- 
ence the following effects. 

Can't Harm the Charmer. You can't attack the 
charmer or target the charmer with damaging abili- 
ties or magical effects. 

Social Advantage. The charmer has Advantage on 
any ability check to interact with you socially. 


CLIMBING 

While you're climbing, each foot of movement costs 
1 extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). You 
ignore this extra cost if you have a Climb Speed and 
use it to climb. 


At the DM's option, climbing a slippery surface or 
one with few handholds might require a successful 
DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. 


CLIMB SPEED 
A Climb Speed can be used in place of Speed to tra- 
verse a vertical surface without expending the extra 


movement normally associated with climbing. See 
also "Climbing" and "Speed." 


CONCENTRATION 
Some spells and other effects require Concentration 
to remain active, as specified in their descriptions. 
If the effect's creator loses Concentration, the effect 
ends. If the effect has a maximum duration, the ef- 
fect's description specifies how long the creator can 
concentrate on it: up to 1 minute, 1 hour, or some 
other duration. The creator can end Concentration 
at any time (no action required). The following fac- 
tors break Concentration. 

Another Concentration Effect. You lose Concen- 
tration on an effect the moment you start casting 
a spell that requires Concentration or activate an- 
other effect that requires Concentration. 

Damage. If you take damage, you must succeed on 
a Constitution saving throw to maintain Concen- 
tration. The DC equals 10 or half the damage taken 
(round down), whichever number is higher, up to a 
maximum DC of 30. 

Incapacitated or Dead. Your Concentration ends if 
you have the Incapacitated condition or you die. 


CONDITION 

A condition is a temporary game state. The defini- 
tion of a condition says how it affects its recipient, 
and various rules define how to end a condition. 
This glossary defines these conditions: 


Blinded Grappled Poisoned 
Charmed Incapacitated Prone 
Deafened Invisible Restrained 
Exhaustion Paralyzed Stunned 
Frightened Petrified Unconscious 


A condition doesn't stack with itself; a recipient ei- 
ther has a condition or doesn't. The Exhaustion con- 
dition is an exception to that rule. See also chapter 1 
("Conditions") 


n 


APPENDIX C | RULES GLOSSARY 


c. ann Ai im 


CONE [AREA OF EFFECT] 
A Cone is an area of effect that extends in straight 
lines from a point of origin in a direction its cre- 
ator chooses. A Cone's width at any point along 
its length is equal to that point’s distance from the 
point of origin. For example, a Cone is 15 feet wide 
at a point along its length that is 15 feet from the 
point of origin. The effect that creates a Cone speci- 
fies its maximum length. 

A Cone’s point of origin isn't included in the area 
of effect unless its creator decides otherwise. 


COVER 

Cover provides a degree of protection to a target 
behind it. There are three degrees of cover, each 

of which provides a different benefit to a target: 
Half Cover (+2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving 
throws), Three-Quarters Cover (*5 bonus to AC and 
Dexterity saving throws), and Total Cover (can't be 
targeted directly). If behind more than one degree 
of cover, a target benefits only from the most pro- 
tective degree. See also chapter 1 ("Combat"). 


CRAWLING 
While you're crawling, each foot of movement costs 
[ 1 extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). See 


also "Speed." 


4 

| CREATURE 
Any being in the game, including a player's charac- 

ter, is a creature. See also "Creature Type." 


CREATURE TYPE 

Every creature, including every player character, 
has a tag in the rules that identifies the type of crea- 
ture it is. Most player characters are of the Human- 
oid type. These are the game's creature types: 


AS Aberration Elemental Monstrosity 
n Beast Fey Ooze 

aT ; Celestial Fiend Plant 

> Construct Giant Undead 
= Dragon Humanoid 


The types don’t have rules themselves, but some 
rules in the game affect creatures of certain types 


T i fiet ways, 


you roll extra dice for the attack's damage against 
the target. Roll all of the attack's damage dice twice 
and add them together. Then add any relevant mod- 
ifiers. See also chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing"). 


СОВЕ [AREA OF EFFECT] 

A Cube is an area of effect that extends in straight 

lines from a point of origin located anywhere on 

a face of the Cube. The effect that creates a Cube 

specifies its size, which is the length of each side. 
A Cube's point of origin isn't included in the area 

of effect unless its creator decides otherwise. 


CURSES 
Some game effects curse a creature or an object. 


The effect that confers a curse defines what the 
curse does. Curses can be removed by the Remove 
Curse and Greater Restoration spells or other magic 
that explicitly ends curses. 


CYLINDER [AREA OF EFFECT] 

A Cylinder is an area of effect that extends in 

straight lines from a point of origin located at the 

center of the circular top or bottom of the Cylinder. 

The effect that creates a Cylinder specifies the ra- 

dius of the Cylinder's base and the Cylinder's height. 
A Cylinder's point of origin is included in the area 


of effect. 


D20 TEST 

D20 Tests encompass the three main d20 rolls of 
the game: ability checks, attack rolls, and saving 
throws. If something in the game affects D20 Tests, 
it affects all three of these rolls. The DM determines 
whether a D20 Test is warranted in a given circum- 
stance. See also chapter 1 (“D20 Tests”). 


DAMAGE 
Damage represents harm that causes a creature or 
an object to lose Hit Points. 


DAMAGE ROLL 

A damage roll is a die roll, adjusted by any applica- 
ble modifiers, that deals damage to a target. See also 
chapter 1 (“Damage and Healing”). 


—-—-—- mee m= —— ET ee 


ais ee en al 


DAMAGE THRESHOLD 
A qs or an object that has a damage thresh- 


4 old! l | nity to фын it taken an 


which case it takes that entire instance of dam- 
age. Any damage that fails to meet or exceed the 
damage threshold is superficial and doesn't reduce 
Hit Points. For example, if an object has a damage 
threshold of 10, the object takes no damage if 9 
damage is dealt to it, since that damage fails to 
exceed the threshold. If the same object is dealt 11 
damage, it takes all of that damage. 


DAMAGE TYPES 

Attacks and other harmful effects deal different 
types of damage. Damage types have no rules of 
their own, but other rules, such as Resistance, rely 
on the types. The Damage Types table offers exam- 
ples to help a DM assign a type to a new effect. 


DAMAGE TvPES 


Type Examples 
Acid Corrosive liquids, digestive enzymes 
Bludgeoning Blunt objects, constriction, falling 
Cold Freezing water, icy blasts 
Fire Flames, unbearable heat 
Force Pure magical energy 
Lightning Electricity 
Necrotic Life-draining energy 
Piercing Fangs, puncturing objects 
Poison Toxic gas, venom 
Psychic Mind-rending energy 
Radiant Holy energy, searing radiation 
Slashing Claws, cutting objects 
Thunder Concussive sound 
DARKNESS 


An area of Darkness is Heavily Obscured. See also 
“Heavily Obscured" and chapter 1 ("Exploration"). 


DARKVISION 

If you have Darkvision, you can see in Dim Light 
within a specified range as if it were Bright Light 
and in Darkness within that range as if it were Dim 
Light. You discern colors in that Darkness only as 
shades of gray. See also chapter 1 ("Exploration"). 


mid — em 


DasH [Action] 
When you take the Dash action, you gain extra 
movement for the current turn. The increase equals 
your Speed after applying any modifiers. With a 
Speed of 30 feet, for example, you can move up to - 
60 feet on your turn if you Dash. If your Speed: 
i ; 


ЗО feet is reduced to 15 feet, you can move up to 30 
feet this turn if you Dash. 

If you have a special speed, such as a Fly Speed or 
Swim Speed, you can use that speed instead of your 
Speed when you take this action. You choose which 
speed to use each time you take it. See also "Speed." 


oo - ~ — — — 


DEAD 

A dead creature has no Hit Points and can't regain 
them unless it is first revived by magic such as the 
Raise Dead or Revivify spell. When such a spell is 
cast, the spirit knows who is casting it and can re- 
fuse. The spirit of a dead creature has left the body 
and departed for the Outer Planes, and reviving the 
creature requires calling the spirit back. 

If the creature returns to life, the revival effect 
determines the creature's current Hit Points. Unless 
otherwise stated, the creature returns to life with 
any conditions, magical contagions, or curses that 
were affecting it at death if the durations of those 
effects are still ongoing. If the creature died with 
any Exhaustion levels, it returns with 1 fewer level. 
If the creature had Attunement to one or more 
magic items, it is no longer attuned to them. 


DEAFENED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Deafened condition, you experi- 
ence the following effect. 

Can’t Hear. You can't hear and automatically fail 
any ability check that requires hearing. 


С MÀ ———À À— Á— 


= 
DEATH SAVING THROW 

A player character must make a Death Saving 
Throw (also called a Death Save) if they start their 
turn with O Hit Points. See also chapter 1 (“Damage 
and Healing”). 


M — UM [e —— 
Em 


DEHYDRATION [HAZARD] 
A creature requires an amount of water per day 
based on its size, as shown in the Water Needs рег _ 


required water for a day gains 1 Exhaustion level — — 
at the day's end. Exhaustion caused by dehydra- — 

tion can't be removed until the creature drinks the ў 
full amount of water required fora day. See also —— 
“Exhaustion.” 


WATER NEEDS PER DAY 


Be 


Size Water Size Water 
Tiy galon Large А йо 
Small 1 gallon Huge 


1 gallon 


266 


DIFFICULT TERRAIN 
If a space is Difficult Terrain, every foot of move- 
ment in that space costs 1 extra foot. For example, 
moving 5 feet through Difficult Terrain costs 10 feet 
of movement. Difficult Terrain isn't cumulative; ei- 
ther a space is Difficult Terrain or it isn't. 

A space is Difficult Terrain if the space contains 
any of the following or something similar: 


• A creature that isn't Tiny or your ally 

* Furniture that is sized for creatures of your size or 
larger 

* Heavy snow, ice, rubble, or undergrowth 

• Liquid that's between shin- and waist-deep 

• A narrow opening sized for a creature one size 
smaller than you 

+ A slope of 20 degrees ог more 


DIFFICULTY CLASS 

A Difficulty Class (DC) is the target number for an 
ability check or a saving throw. See also chapter 1 
("D20 Tests”). 


DiM LIGHT 
An area with Dim Light is Lightly Obscured. See also 
“Lightly Obscured” and chapter 1 (“Exploration”). 


DISADVANTAGE 

If you have Disadvantage on a D20 Test, roll two 
d20s and use the lower roll. A roll can’t be affected 
by more than one Disadvantage, and Advantage and 
Disadvantage on the same roll cancel each other. See 
also chapter 1 (“D20 Tests”). 


DISENGAGE [ACTION] 

If you take the Disengage action, your movement 
doesn't provoke Opportunity Attacks for the rest of 
the current turn. 


Dopce [Action] 

If you take the Dodge action, you gain the following 
benefits: until the start of your next turn, any attack 
roll made against you has Disadvantage if you can 


APPENDIX C | RULES GLOSSARY 


see the attacker, and you make Dexterity saving 


throws with Advantage. 
You lose these benefits if you have the Incapaci- 


tated condition or if your Speed is O. 


EMANATION [AREA OF EFFECT] 

An Emanation is an area of effect that extends in 
straight lines from a creature or an object in all 
directions. The effect that creates an Emanation 


specifies the distance it extends. 
An Emanation moves with the creature or object 
that is its origin unless it is an instantaneous or a 


stationary effect. 
An Emanation's origin (creature or object) isn't in- 
cluded in the area of effect unless its creator decides 


otherwise. 


ENCOUNTER 
An encounter is a scene in an adventure that is part 


of at least one of the game's three pillars: social in- 
teraction, exploration, or combat. See also chapter 1 
("Social Interaction,” "Exploration," and "Combat"). 


ENEMY 

A creature is your enemy if it fights against you in 
combat, actively works to harm you, or is desig- 
nated as your enemy by the rules or DM. 


EXHAUSTION [CONDITION] 
While you have the Exhaustion condition, you 
experience the following effects. 

Exhaustion Levels. This condition is cumulative. 
Each time you receive it, you gain 1 Exhaustion 
level. You die if your Exhaustion level is 6. 

D20 Tests Affected. When you make a D20 Test, 
the roll is reduced by 2 times your Exhaustion level. 
Speed Reduced. Your Speed is reduced by a num- 

ber of feet equal to 5 times your Exhaustion level. 

Removing Exhaustion Levels. Finishing a Long 
Rest removes 1 of your Exhaustion levels. When 
your Exhaustion level reaches О, the condition ends. 


EXPERIENCE POINTS 
As they overcome challenges and complete ad- 
ventures, characters earn Experience Points (ХР), 


which are awarded by the Dungeon Master. When 
a character's XP total crosses certain thresholds, 
the character's level increases. The Dungeon Master's 
Guide provides guidance on awarding XP. See also 
chapter 2 ("Level Advancement"). 


EXPERTISE 

Expertise is a feature that enhances your use of a 
skill proficiency. When you make an ability check 
with a skill proficiency in which you have Expertise, 
your Proficiency Bonus is doubled for that check 
unless the bonus is doubled by another feature. 

If you gain Expertise, you gain it in one skill in 
which you have proficiency. You can't have Exper- 
tise in the same skill proficiency more than once. 

See also chapter 1 ("Proficiency"). 


FALLING [HAZARD] 

A creature that falls takes 1d6 Bludgeoning dam- 
age at the end of the fall for every 10 feet it fell, to 
a maximum of 20d6. When the creature lands, it 
has the Prone condition unless it avoids taking any 
damage from the fall. 

A creature that falls into water or another liquid 
can use its Reaction to make a DC 15 Strength (Ath- 
letics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to hit the 
surface head or feet first. On a successful check, any 
damage resulting from the fall is halved. 


FLYING 

A variety of effects allow a creature to fly. While 
flying, you fall if you have the Incapacitated or 
Prone condition or your Fly Speed is reduced to O. 
You can stay aloft in those circumstances if you can 
hover. See also "Falling" and "Fly Speed." 


FLv SPEED 

A Fly Speed can be used to travel through the air. 
While you have a Fly Speed, you can stay aloft until 
you land, fall, or die. See also “Flying” and “Speed.” 


Frise pty [ATTITUDE] 

A Friendly creature views you favorably. You 
have Advantage on an ability check to influence a 
Fries: Пу creature. See also “Influence.” 


FRIGHTENED [CONDITION] 


While you have the Frightened condition, you expe- | 
rience the following effects. | 

Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have Dis- 
advantage on ability checks and attack rolls while 
the source of fear is within line of sight. 


Can't Approach. You can't willingly move closer to 
the source of fear. 


GRAPPLED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Grappled condition, you experi- 
ence the following effects. 
Speed О. Your Speed is О and can't increase. 
Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack | 
rolls against any target other than the grappler. 
Movable. The grappler can drag or carry you 
when it moves, but every foot of movement costs it 1 


extra foot unless you are Tiny or two or more sizes 
smaller than it. 


GRAPPLING 

A creature can grapple another creature. Charac- 
ters typically grapple by using an Unarmed Strike. 
Many monsters have special attacks that allow 
them to quickly grapple prey. However a grapple is 
initiated, it follows these rules. See also "Unarmed 
Strike" and "Grappled." 

Grappled Condition. Successfully grappling a crea- 
ture gives it the Grappled condition. 

One Grapple per Hand. A creature must have a 
hand free to grapple another creature. Some stat 
blocks and game effects allow a creature to grap- 
ple using a tentacle, a maw, or another body part. 
Whatever part a grappler uses, it can grapple only 
one creature at a time with that part, and the grap- 
pler can't use that part to target another creature 
unless it ends the grapple. 

Escaping a Grapple. A Grappled creature can use 
its action to make a Strength (Athletics) or Dexter- 
ity (Acrobatics) check against the grapple's escape 
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success. The 
condition also ends if the grappler has the Incapaci- 
tated condition or if the distance between the Grap- 
pled target and the grappler exceeds the grapples — 
range. 


/— APPENDIX C | RULES GLOSSARY 


 ception) check. 


HAZARD 
A hazard is an environmental danger. See also 


“Burning,” “Dehydration,” “Falling,” “Malnutrition,” 
and “Suffocation.” 


HEALING 
Healing is how you regain Hit Points. See also chap- 


ter 1 (“Damage and Healing”). 


HEAVILY OBSCURED 
You have the Blinded condition while trying to see 
something in a Heavily Obscured space. See also 
“Blinded,” “Darkness,” and chapter 1 (“Exploration”). 


HELP [Action] 
When you take the Help action, you do one of the 


following. 
Assist an Ability Check. Choose one of your 


skill or tool proficiencies and one ally who is near 
enough for you to assist verbally or physically when 
they make an ability check. That ally has Advantage 
on the next ability check they make with the chosen 
skill or tool. This benefit expires if the ally doesn’t 
use it before the start of your next turn. The DM 
has final say on whether your assistance is possible. 
Assist an Attack Roll. You momentarily distract 
an enemy within 5 feet of you, giving Advantage to 
the next attack roll by one of your allies against that 
enemy. This benefit expires at the start of your next 


turn. 


HEROIC INSPIRATION 
If you (a player character) have Heroic Inspiration, 
you can expend it to reroll any die immediately after 
rolling it, and you must use the new roll. 

If you gain Heroic Inspiration but already have it, 
it’s lost unless you give it to a player character who 


lacks it. 


Hive [Action] 
With the Hide action, you try to conceal yourself. 
To do so, you must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity 
(Stealth) check while you're Heavily Obscured or 
behind Three-Quarters Cover or Total Cover, and 
you must be out of any enemy’s line of sight; if you 
can see a creature, you can discern whether it can 
see you. 

On a successful check, you have the Invisible con- 
dition. Make note of your check's total, which is the 
DC for a creature to find you with a Wisdom (Per- 


The condition ends on you immediately after any 
of the following occurs: you make a sound louder 
than a whisper, an enemy finds you, you make 
an attack roll, or you cast a spell with a Verbal 


component. 


HIGH JUMP 
When you make a High Jump, you leap into the 
air a number of feet equal to 5 plus your Strength 
modifier (minimum of O feet) if you move at least 
10 feet on foot immediately before the jump. When 
you make a standing High Jump, you can jump only 
half that distance. Either way, each foot of the jump 
costs a foot of movement. 

You can extend your arms half your height above 
yourself during the jump. Thus, you can reach a dis- 
tance equal to the height of the jump plus 1% times 


your height. 


HiT Point DICE 

Hit Point Dice, or Hit Dice for short, help deter- 
mine a player character's Hit Point maximum, as 
explained in chapter 2. Most monsters also have Hit 
Dice. A creature can spend Hit Dice during a Short 
Rest to regain Hit Points. See also "Short Rest." 


HIT POINTS 
Hit Points (HP) are a measure of how difficult it is 


to kill or destroy a creature or an object. Damage 
reduces Hit Points, and healing restores them. You 
can't have more Hit Points than your Hit Point 
maximum, and you can't have less than O. See also 
"Breaking Objects" and chapter 1 ("Damage and 


Healing"). 


HOSTILE [ATTITUDE] 

A Hostile creature views you unfavorably. You have 
Disadvantage on an ability check to influence a Hos- 
tile creature. See also "Influence." 


HOVER 
Some creatures can hover, as noted in their stat 


blocks, and some spells and other effects grant the 
ability to hover. Hovering while flying prevents 
you from falling in certain circumstances. See also 


“Flying.” 


M 


ILLUSIONS 


Spells and other effects sometimes create magical il- 
lusions. Such an effect defines what the illusion does 
and which senses or mental faculties it deceives. 

If an illusion manifests in space, the illusion is 
insubstantial and weightless, yet it seems to be af- 
fected by the environment as if the illusion were 
real unless the effect that created it specifies oth- 
erwise. For example, a visual illusion of a creature 
casts shadows and reflections, and wind appears 
to affect the illusory creature. Similarly, an audible 
illusion echoes in an echoey space. 


IMMUNITY 


If you have Immunity to a damage type or a condi- 
tion, it doesn’t affect you in any way. 


IMPROVISED WEAPONS 
An improvised weapon is an object wielded as a 
makeshift weapon, such as broken glass, a table leg, 
or a frying pan. A Simple or Martial weapon also 
counts as an improvised weapon if it’s wielded in 
a way contrary to its design; if you use a Ranged 
weapon to make a melee attack or throw a Me- 
lee weapon that lacks the Thrown property, the 
weapon counts as an improvised weapon. An impro- 
vised weapon follows the rules below. 
Proficiency. Don't add your Proficiency Bonus to 
attack rolls with an improvised weapon. 
Damage. On a hit, the weapon deals 1d4 damage of 
a type the DM thinks is appropriate for the object. 
Range. If you throw the weapon, it has a normal 
range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet. 
Weapon Equivalents. If an improvised weapon 
resembles a Simple or Martial weapon, the DM may 
say it functions as that weapon and uses that weap- 
on's rules. For example, the DM could treat a table 
leg as a Club. 


INCAPACITATED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Incapacitated condition, you 
experience the following effects. 

Inactive. You can't take any action, Bonus Action, 
or Reaction. 

No Concentration. Your Concentration is broken. 

Speechless. You can't speak. 

Surprised. If you're Incapacitated when you roll 
Initiative, you have Disadvantage on the roll. 


— с 


Ch 


INDIFFERENT [ATTITUDE] 

An Indifferent creature has no desire to help or 
hinder you. Indifferent is the default attitude of a 
monster. See also “Influence.” 


co 


INFLUENCE [AcTION] 

With the Influence action, you urge a monster to 

do something. Describe or roleplay how you're 
communicating with the monster. Are you trying 
to deceive, intimidate, amuse, or gently persuade? 
The DM then determines whether the monster feels 
willing, unwilling, or hesitant due to your interac- 
tion; this determination establishes whether an abil- 
ity check is necessary, as explained below. 

Willing. If your urging aligns with the monster's 
desires, no ability check is necessary; the monster 
fulfills your request in a way it prefers. 

Unwilling. If your urging is repugnant to the mon- 
ster or counter to its alignment, no ability check is 
necessary; it doesn't comply. 

Hesitant. If you urge the monster to do something 
that it is hesitant to do, you must make an ability 
check, which is affected by the monster's attitude: 
Indifferent, Friendly, or Hostile, each of which is 
defined in this glossary. The Influence Checks ta- 
ble suggests which ability check to make based on 
how youre interacting with the monster. The DM 
chooses the check, which has a default DC equal to 
15 or the monster's Intelligence score, whichever is 
higher. On a successful check, the monster does as 
urged. On a failed check, you must wait 24 hours 
(or a duration set by the DM) before urging it in the 
same way again. 


INFLUENCE CHECKS 


Ability Check Interaction 

Charisma (Deception) Deceiving a monster 
that understands you 

Charisma (Intimidation) Intimidating a monster 


Charisma (Performance) Amusing a monster 

Charisma (Persuasion) Persuading a monster 
that understands you 

Wisdom (Animal Handling) Gently coaxing a Beast 
or Monstrosity 


INITIATIVE 
Initiative determines the order of turns during com- 
bat. The combat rules in chapter 1 explain how to 
roll Initiative. 

Sometimes a DM might have combatants use 
their Initiative scores instead of rolling Initiative. 
Your Initiative score equals 10 plus your Dexterity 


күздө сз Hm Ld Re NN 


4 М 


Мауи 


UT a "m | ЮТ. p 


» ai n cll || 5 80 


A Line's point of origin isn't included in the area 
of effect unless its creator decides otherwise. 


modifier. If you have Advantage on Initiative rolls, 
increase your Initiative score by 5. If you have Dis- 
advantage on those rolls, decrease that score by 5. 
See also chapter 1 ("Combat"). 


INVISIBLE [CONDITION] 
While you have the Invisible condition, you experi- 


ence the following effects. 

Surprise. If you're Invisible when you roll Initia- 
tive, you have Advantage on the roll. 

Concealed. You aren't affected by any effect that 
requires its target to be seen unless the effect's cre- 
ator can somehow see you. Any equipment you are 
wearing or carrying is also concealed. 

Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have 
Disadvantage, and your attack rolls have Advan- 
tage. If a creature can somehow see you, you don't 
gain this benefit against that creature. 


JUMPING 

When you jump, you make either a Long Jump (hor- 
izontal) or a High Jump (vertical). See also “Long 
Jump” and “High Jump.” 


KNOCKING OUT A CREATURE 

When you would reduce a creature to O Hit Points 
with a melee attack, you can instead reduce the 
creature to 1 Hit Point. The creature then has the 
Unconscious condition and starts a Short Rest. 

The creature remains Unconscious until it regains 
any Hit Points or until someone uses an action to 
administer first aid to it, which requires a successful 
DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check. 


LIGHTLY OBSCURED 

You have Disadvantage on Wisdom (Percep- 
tion) checks to see something in a Lightly Ob- 
scured space. See also “Dim Light” and chapter 1 
(“Exploration”). 


(nnn з г> 


Ілме [AREA OF EFFECT] 

A Line is an area of effect that extends from a point 
of origin in a straight path along its length and cov- 
ers an area defined by its width. The effect that cre- 


LONG JUMP 

When you make a Long Jump, you leap horizontally 
a number of feet up to your Strength score if you 
move at least 10 feet immediately before the jump. 
When you make a standing Long Jump, you can leap 
only half that distance. Either way, each foot you 


jump costs a foot of movement. 
If you land in Difficult Terrain, you must succeed 
on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check or have the 


Prone condition. 
This Long Jump rule assumes that the height of 


the jump doesn't matter, such as a jump across a 
stream or chasm. At your DM's option, you must 
succeed on a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to 
clear a low obstacle (no taller than a quarter of the 
jump's distance), such as a hedge or low wall. Other- 
wise, you hit the obstacle. 


LONG REST 

A Long Rest is a period of extended downtime—at 
least 8 hours—available to any creature. During a 
Long Rest, you sleep for at least 6 hours and per- 
form no more than 2 hours of light activity, such as 
reading, talking, eating, or standing watch. 

During sleep, you have the Unconscious condition. 
After you finish a Long Rest, you must wait at least 
16 hours before starting another one. 

Benefits of the Rest. To start a Long Rest, you must 
have at least 1 Hit Point. When you finish the rest, 
you gain the following benefits: 


Regain All HP. You regain all lost Hit Points and all 
spent Hit Point Dice. If your Hit Point maximum 
was reduced, it returns to normal. 

Ability Scores Restored. If any of your ability 
scores were reduced, they return to normal. 

Exhaustion Reduced. If you have the Exhaustion 
condition, its level decreases by 1. 

Special Feature. Some features are recharged by a 
Long Rest. If you have such a feature, it recharges 
in the way specified in its description. 


Interrupting the Rest, A Long Rest is stopped by 
the following interruptions: 


+ Rolling Initiative 


NOOS RAHMAN 


* Casting a spell other than a cantrip 


. .. ates a Line specifies its length and width. 


ж. D MNA em ‚аа 
bns c = NEL s S diua uh ccs a uL DER T LE 


ТҮРТ 


D mae 2L) | 


- Taking any damage 
- 1 hour of walking or other physical exertion 


If you rested at least 1 hour before the interruption, 
you gain the benefits of a Short Rest. See also "Short 
Rest." 

You can resume a Long Rest immediately after an 
interruption. If you do so, the rest requires 1 addi- 
tional hour per interruption to finish. 


Macic [Action] 

When you take the Magic action, you cast a spell 
that has a casting time of an action or use a feature 
or magic item that requires a Magic action to be 
activated. 

If you cast a spell that has a casting time of 1 min- 
ute or longer, you must take the Magic action on 
each turn of that casting, and you must maintain 
Concentration while you do so. If your Concentra- 
tion is broken, the spell fails, but you don’t expend a 
spell slot. See also “Concentration.” 


| MAGICAL EFFECT 
l An effect is magical if it is created by a spell, a magic 
item, or a phenomenon that a rule labels as magical. 


MALNUTRITION [HAZARD] 
| А creature needs an amount of food рег day based 
on its size, as shown in the Food Needs per Day ta- 
ble. A creature that eats but consumes less than half 
| the required food for a day must succeed on a DC 
| 10 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 Exhaustion 
| level at the day's end. A creature that eats nothing 
| for 5 days automatically gains 1 Exhaustion level at 
the end of the fifth day as well as an additional level 
at the end of each subsequent day without food. 
| Exhaustion caused by malnutrition can't be re- 
| moved until the creature eats the full amount of 
food required for a day. See also "Exhaustion." 


Foop NEEDS PER DAY 


Size Food Size Food 

Tiny 1/4 pound Large 4 pounds 
Small 1 pound Huge 16 pounds 
Medium 1 pound Gargantuan 64 pounds 


= 20 ducato be NELLE 


MONSTER 


A monster is a creature controlled by the DM, even 
if the creature is benevolent. See also “Creature” and 
“МРС” 


NONPLAYER CHARACTER 

A nonplayer character (NPC) is a monster that has 
a personal name and a distinct personality. See also 
"Monster." 


OBJECT 

An object is a nonliving, distinct thing. Composite 
things, like buildings, comprise more than one ob- 
ject. See also "Breaking Objects." 


OCCUPIED SPACE 
A space is occupied if a creature is in it or if it is 
completely filled by objects. 


OPPORTUNITY ATTACKS 

You can make an Opportunity Attack when a crea- 
ture that you can see leaves your reach using its 
action, its Bonus Action, its Reaction, or one of its 
speeds. To make the Opportunity Attack, take a Re- 
action to make one melee attack with a weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike against the provoking creature. 
The attack occurs right before the creature leaves 
your reach. See also chapter 1 ("Combat"). 


PARALYZED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Paralyzed condition, you expe- 
rience the following effects. "n 

Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated 
condition. 

Speed 0. Your Speed is 0 and can't increase. 

Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail 
Strength and Dexterity saving throws. 

Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have 
Advantage. 

Automatic Critical Hits. Any attack roll that hits _ 
you is a Critical Hit if the attacker is within 5 fec 
you. 


y^ Prae, оь 


PASSIVE PERCEPTION 
Passive Perception is a score that reflects a crea- 
ture's general awareness of its surroundings. The 
DM uses this score when determining whether a 
creature notices something without consciously 
making a Wisdom (Perception) check. 

A creature's Passive Perception equals 10 plus the 
creature's Wisdom (Perception) check bonus. If the 
creature has Advantage on such checks, increase 
the score by 5. If the creature has Disadvantage on 
them, decrease the score by 5. For example, a level 
1 character with a Wisdom of 15 and proficiency 
in Perception has a Passive Perception of 14 (10 + 
2 * 2). If that character has Advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks, the score becomes 19. 


PER Day 

If a rule says you can use something a certain num- 
ber of times per day, that means you must finish a 
Long Rest to use it again after you run out of uses. 


PETRIFIED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Petrified condition, you experi- 


ence the following effects. 

Turned to Inanimate Substance. You are trans- 
formed, along with any nonmagical objects you are 
wearing and carrying, into a solid inanimate sub- 
stance (usually stone). Your weight increases by a 


factor of ten, and you cease aging. 
Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated 


condition. 
Speed 0. Your Speed is O and can't increase. 
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have 


Advantage. 
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail 
Strength and Dexterity saving throws. 
Resist Damage. You have Resistance to all damage. 
Poison Immunity. You have Immunity to the Poi- 


soned condition. 


PLAYER CHARACTER 
A player character is a character controlled by a 


player. See also chapter 2. 


PorsoNED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Poisoned condition, you experi- 


ence the following effect. 
Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have Dis- 
advantage on attack rolls and ability checks. 


POSSESSION 
Some effects cause a creature to be possessed by an- 


other creature or entity. À possessing effect defines 
how the possession operates. Possession can be pre- 
vented by the Protection from Evil and Good spell and 
ended by the Dispel Evil and Good spell. 


PROFICIENCY 
If you have proficiency with something, you can add 
your Proficiency Bonus to any D20 Test you make 
using that thing. A creature might have proficiency 
in a skill or saving throw or with a weapon or tool. 


See also chapter 1 ("Proficiency"). 


PRONE [CONDITION] 
While you have the Prone condition, you experi- 
ence the following effects. 

Restricted Movement. Your only movement op- 
tions are to crawl or to spend an amount of move- 
ment equal to half your Speed (round down) to 
right yourself and thereby end the condition. If your 
Speed is O, you can't right yourself. 

Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack 
rolls. An attack roll against you has Advantage if 
the attacker is within 5 feet of you. Otherwise, that 


attack roll has Disadvantage. 


REACTION 

A Reaction is a special action taken in response to 

a trigger defined in the Reaction's description. You 
can take a Reaction on another creature's turn, and 
if you take it on your turn, you can do so even if you 
also take an action, a Bonus Action, or both. Once 
you take a Reaction, you can't take another one un- 
til the start of your next turn. The Opportunity At- 
tack is a Reaction available to all creatures. See also 
"Opportunity Attacks" and chapter 1 ("Actions"). 


READY [AcTIon] 

You take the Ready action to wait for a particular 
circumstance before you act. To do so, you take this 
action on your turn, which lets you act by taking a 
Reaction before the start of your next turn. 

First, you decide what perceivable circumstance 
will trigger your Reaction. Then, you choose the 
action you will take in response to that trigger, or 
you choose to move up to your Speed in response 
to it. Examples include “If the cultist steps on the 
trapdoor, I'll pull the lever that opens it,” and “If the 
zombie steps next to me, I move away.” 


When the trigger occurs, you can either take your 
Reaction right after the trigger finishes or ignore 
the trigger. 

When you Ready a spell, you cast it as normal (ex- 
pending any resources used to cast it) but hold its 
energy, which you release with your Reaction when 
the trigger occurs. To be readied, a spell must have 
a casting time of an action, and holding on to the 
spell's magic requires Concentration, which you can 
maintain up to the start of your next turn. If your 
Concentration is broken, the spell dissipates with- 
out taking effect. 


RESISTANCE 

If you have Resistance to a damage type, damage of 
that type is halved against you (round down). Resis- 
tance is applied only once to an instance of damage. 
See also chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing"). 


RESTRAINED [CONDITION] 
While you have the Restrained condition, you expe- 
rience the following effects. 
Speed O. Your Speed is O and can't increase. 
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you 
have Advantage, and your attack rolls have 
Disadvantage. 
Saving Throws Affected. You have Disadvantage 
on Dexterity saving throws. 


RITUAL 

If you have a spell prepared that has the Ritual tag, 
you can cast that spell as a Ritual. The Ritual ver- 
sion of a spell takes 10 minutes longer to cast than 
normal. It also doesn't expend a spell slot, which 
means the ritual version of a spell can't be cast at a 
higher level. See also chapter 7. 


RouND DOWN 

Whenever you divide or multiply a number in the 
game, round down if you end up with a fraction, 
even if the fraction is one-half or greater. Some 
rules make an exception and tell you to round up. 


SAVE 
Save is another name for a saving throw. See also 
"Saving Throw." 


SaviNG THROW 

A saving throw—also called a save—represents an 
attempt to avoid or resist a threat. You normally 
make a saving throw only when a rule requires you 
to do so, but you can decide to fail the save without 


rolling. The result of a save is detailed in the effect 
that allowed it. If a target is forced to make a save 
and lacks the ability score used by it, the target au- 
tomatically fails. See also chapter 1 ("D20 Tests"). 


SEARCH [Action] 

When you take the Search action, you make a Wis- 
dom check to discern something that isn’t obvious. 
The Search table suggests which skills are applica- 
ble when you take this action, depending on what 
you're trying to detect. 


SEARCH 
Skill Thing to Detect 
Insight Creature's state of mind 
Medicine Creature's ailment or cause of death 
Perception Concealed creature or object 
Survival Tracks or food 


SHAPE-SHIFTING 

If an effect, such as Wild Shape or the Polymorph 
spell, lets you shape-shift, its description specifies 
what happens to you. Unless that description says 
otherwise, any ongoing effects on you—conditions, 
spells, curses, and the like—carry over from one 
form to the other. You revert to your true form if 
you die. 


SHORT REST 

А Short Rest is a 1-hour period of downtime, during 

which a creature does nothing more strenuous than 

reading, talking, eating, or standing watch. To start 

a Short Rest, you must have at least 1 Hit Point. 
Benefits of the Rest. When you finish the rest, you 

gain the following benefits: 


Spend Hit Point Dice. You can spend one or more 
of your Hit Point Dice to regain Hit Points. For 
each Hit Point Die you spend in this way, roll the 
die and add your Constitution modifier to it. You 
regain Hit Points equal to the total (minimum of 1 
Hit Point). You can decide to spend an additional 
Hit Point Die after each roll. 

Special Feature. Some features are recharged by a 
Short Rest. If you have such a feature, it recharges 
in the way specified in its description. 


Interrupting the Rest. A Short Rest is stopped by 
the following interruptions: 
- Rolling Initiative 
- Casting a spell other than a cantrip 
· Taking any damage 


An interrupted Short Rest confers no benefits. 


APPENDIX C | RULES GLOSSARY P 373 


* 


Be ok 


SIMULTANEOUS EFFECTS 

If two or more things happen at the same time ona 
turn, the person at the game table—player or DM— 
whose turn it is decides the order in which those 
things happen. For example, if two effects occur at 
the start of a player character's turn, the player de- 
cides which of the effects happens first. 


SIZE 

A creature or an object belongs to a size category: 
Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan. 
A creature’s size determines how much space the 
creature occupies in combat. An object's size affects 
its Hit Points. See also “Breaking Objects” and chap- 
ter 1 (“Combat”). 


SKILL 

A skill is an area of specialization associated with 
an ability check. If you have proficiency in a skill, 
you can add your Proficiency Bonus when you make 
an ability check associated with that skill. See also 
chapter 1 (“Proficiency”). 


SPEED 

A creature has a Speed, which is the distance in feet 
the creature can cover when it moves on its turn. 
See also “Climbing,” “Crawling,” “Flying,” “Jumping,” 
“Swimming” and chapter 1 (“Combat”). 

Special Speeds. Some creatures have special 
speeds, such as a Burrow Speed, Climb Speed, Fly 
Speed, or Swim Speed, each of which is defined 
in this glossary. If you have more than one speed, 
choose which one to use when you move; you can 
switch between the speeds during your move. 
Whenever you switch, subtract the distance already 
moved from the new speed. The result determines 
how much farther you can move. If the result is O or 
less, you can't use the new speed during the current 
move. For example, if you have a Speed of 50 and a 
Fly Speed of 40, you could fly 10 feet, walk 10 feet, 
and leap into the air to fly 20 feet more. 

Changes to Your Speeds. If an effect increases or 
decreases your Speed for a time, any special speed 
you have increases or decreases by an equal amount 


APPENDIX C | RULES GLOSSARY 


for the same duration. For example, if your Speed 
is reduced to O and you have a Climb Speed, your 
Climb Speed is also reduced to O. Similarly, if your 
Speed is halved and you have a Fly Speed, your Fly 
Speed is also halved. 


SPELL 
A spell is a magical effect that has the characteris- 


tics described in chapter 7. 


SPELL ATTACK 
A spell attack is an attack roll made as part of a spell 
or another magical effect. See also chapter 7 (“Cast- 


ing Spells”). 


SPELLCASTING Focus 

A Spellcasting Focus is an object that certain crea- 
tures can use in place of a spell’s Material compo- 
nents if those materials aren’t consumed by the spell 
and don't have a cost specified. Some classes allow 
its members to use certain types of Spellcasting Fo- 
cuses. See also chapter 7 ("Casting Spells"). 


SPHERE [AREA OF EFFECT] 
A Sphere is an area of effect that extends in straight 
lines from a point of origin outward in all direc- 
tions. The effect that creates a Sphere specifies the 
distance it extends as the radius of the Sphere. 

A Sphere's point of origin is included in the 
Sphere's area of effect. | 


STABLE 

A creature is Stable if it has O Hit Points but isn't 
required to make Death Saving Throws. See also 
chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing"). 


STAT BLOCK 
A stat block contains the game statistics of a mon- 
ster. Each stat block includes the following informa- 
tion presented after the monster's name. 

Size. A monster is Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, 
Huge, or Gargantuan. See also "Size." 


NOOR RAHMAN 


£ dd мЕН EY 


Creature Type. This entry notes the family of be- 
ings a monster belongs to, along with any descrip- 
tive tags. See also "Creature Type." 


Alignment. An alignment is suggested for the 
monster, with the DM determining its actual align- 
ment. See also "Alignment." 

AC, Initiative, and HP. These entries give the mon- 
ster's Armor Class, Initiative, and Hit Points, which 
are detailed in chapter 1. In parentheses after the 
Hit Points, the monster's Hit Point Dice are pro- 
vided, along with the contribution of its Constitu- 
tion, if any, to its Hit Points. Following the Initiative 
modifier is an Initiative score. Some creatures that 
are created by magic lack Hit Dice and Initiative 
information. 

Speed. Here the monster's Speed is provided, along 
with any special speeds. See also “Burrow Speed,” 
“Climb Speed,” “Fly Speed,” and “Swim Speed.” 

Ability Scores. A table provides the monster's abil- 
ity scores, modifiers, and saving throw modifiers, all 
of which are detailed in chapter 1. 

Skills. This entry lists the monster's skill proficien- 
cies, if any. See also chapter 1 (“Proficiency”). 

Resistances and Vulnerabilities. These entries list 
the monster's Resistances and Vulnerabilities, if any. 
See also “Resistance” and “Vulnerability.” 

Immunities. This section lists the monster's 
damage and condition Immunities, if any. See also 
“Immunity.” 

Gear. If the monster has any equipment that can 
be given away or retrieved, it’s listed in this entry. 

Senses. This entry lists the monster's special 
senses, such as Darkvision, and its Passive Percep- 
tion. See also “Passive Perception.” 

Languages. This entry lists any languages the 
monster knows. 

CR. Challenge Rating summarizes the threat a 
monster poses and is detailed in the Monster Manual. 
The Experience Points characters receive for de- 
feating a monster and its Proficiency Bonus follow. 
Some creatures that are created by magic have no 
CR. See also “Challenge Rating” and “Experience 
Points.” 

Traits. The monster's traits, if any, are features 
that are active at all times or in certain situations. 

Actions. The monster can take these actions in 
addition to those detailed in this glossary. See also 

chapter 1 ("Actions"). 

Borus Actions. If the monster has Bonus Action 
options, they are listed in this section. — 


tions, those are listed in this section. 


Reactions. If the monster can take special Reac- 


Attack Notation. The entry for a monster's attack | 
starts by identifying whether the attack is a melee 
or a ranged attack and then provides the attack | 
roll’s bonus, its reach or range, and what happens | 
on a hit. An attack is against one target unless its | 
entry says otherwise. 

Saving Throw Effect Notation. If an effect forces a 
saving throw, the effect's entry starts by identifying 
the kind of saving throw required and then pro- 
vides the save's DC, a description of which creatures 
must make the save, and what happens on a failed 
or a successful save. 

Damage Notation. A stat block usually provides 
both a static number and a die expression for each 
instance of damage. For example, an attack might 
deal 4 (1d4 + 2) damage on a hit. The DM deter- 
mines whether you use the static number or the die 
expression in parentheses; you don't use both. 


Stupy [Action] 
When you take the Study action, you make an Intel- 
ligence check to study your memory, a book, a clue, 
or another source of knowledge and call to mind an 
important piece of information about it. 

The Areas of Knowledge table suggests which 
skills are applicable to various areas of knowledge. 


AREAS OF KNOWLEDGE 
Skill Areas 
Arcana Spells, magic items, eldritch symbols, 
magical traditions, planes of exis- 
tence, and certain creatures (Aberra- 
tions, Constructs, Elementals, Fey, 
and Monstrosities) 
History Historic events and people, ancient 
civilizations, wars, and certain crea- 
tures (Giants and Humanoids) 


Investigation Traps, ciphers, riddles, and gadgetry 


Nature Terrain, flora, weather, and certain 
creatures (Beasts, Dragons, Oozes, 
and Plants) 

Religion Deities, religious hierarchies and rites, - 


holy symbols, cults, and certain crea- — — 
tures (Celestials, Fiends, and Undead) —— 


b 


i APPENDIX C | RULES GLOSSARY 


STUNNED [CONDITION] | 
While you have the Stunned condition, you experi- 


ence the following effects. 
Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated 


condition. | 
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail 


Strength and Dexterity saving throws. 
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have 


Advantage. 


SUFFOCATION [HAZARD] 

A creature can hold its breath for a number of 
minutes equal to 1 plus its Constitution modifier 
(minimum of 30 seconds) before suffocation begins. 
When a creature runs out of breath or is chok- 

ing, it gains 1 Exhaustion level at the end of each 

of its turns. When a creature can breathe again, 

it removes all levels of Exhaustion it gained from 


suffocating. 


SURPRISE 

If a creature is caught unawares by the start of 
combat, that creature is surprised, which causes it 
to have Disadvantage on its Initiative roll. See also 
chapter 1 ("Combat"). 


SwIMMING 

While you're swimming, each foot of movement 
costs 1 extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). 
You ignore this extra cost if you have a Swim Speed 
and use it to swim. At the DM's option, moving any 
distance in rough water might require a successful 
DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. 


SWIM SPEED 

A Swim Speed can be used to swim without expend- 
ing the extra movement normally associated with 
swimming. See also "Swimming" and "Speed." 


TARGET 

A target is the creature or object targeted by an 
attack roll, forced to make a saving throw by an 
effect, or selected to receive the effects of a spell or 


another phenomenon. 


E d ЕИН ON 
T M АЕТ Д at T. 


TELEPATHY 
Telepathy is a magical ability that allows a creature 


to communicate mentally with another creature 
within a specified range. Unless a rule states other- 
wise, the contacted creature doesn't need to share a 
language with the telepath to understand this com- 
munication, but the contacted creature must be able 
to understand at least one language or be telepathic 


itself to understand. 
A telepath doesn't need to see a contacted crea- 


ture, and the telepath can start or end the telepathic 
contact at any time (no action required). Telepathic 
contact can't be initiated and is immediately broken 
if either the telepath or the other creature has the 
Incapacitated condition. Telepathic contact is also 
broken if the contacted creature is no longer within 
the telepathy's range or if the telepath contacts a 
different creature within range. 

A creature without telepathy can receive tele- 
pathic messages but can't initiate a telepathic con- 
versation. Once a telepathic conversation starts, 
the non-telepath can communicate mentally to the 
telepath until the telepathic connection ends. 


'TELEPORTATION 
Teleportation is a special kind of magical transpor- 
tation. If you teleport, you disappear and reappear 
elsewhere instantly, without moving through the in- 
tervening space. This transportation doesn't expend 
movement unless a rule tells you otherwise, and 
teleportation never provokes Opportunity Attacks. 

When you teleport, all the equipment you're 
wearing and carrying teleports with you. If you're 
touching another creature when you teleport, that 
creature doesn't teleport with you unless the tele- 
portation effect says otherwise. 

If the destination space of your teleportation is 
occupied by another creature or blocked by a solid 
obstacle, you instead appear in the nearest unoccu- 
pied space of your choice. 

The description of a teleportation effect tells you 
if you must see the teleportation's destination. 


TEMPORARY HIT POINTS 

Temporary Hit Points are granted by certain effects 
and act as a buffer against losing real Hit Points. See 
also chapter 1 (“Damage and Healing"). 


'TREMORSENSE 

A creature with Tremorsense can pinpoint the 

location of creatures and moving objects within 

a specific range, provided that the creature with 

Tremorsense and anything it is detecting are both in 

contact with the same surface (such as the ground, 

a wall, or a ceiling) or the same liquid. 
Tremorsense can't detect creatures or objects in 

the air, and it doesn't count as a form of sight. 


TRUESIGHT 
If you have Truesight, your vision is enhanced 


within a specified range. Within that range, your 
vision pierces through the following: 


Darkness. You can see in normal and magical 
Darkness. 


Invisibility. You see creatures and objects that have 
the Invisible condition. 


Visual Illusions. Visual illusions appear transpar- 


ent to you, and you automatically succeed on sav- 
ing throws against them. 


‘Transformations. You discern the true form of any 


creature or object you see that has been trans- 
formed by magic. 


Ethereal Plane. You see into the Ethereal Plane. See 
also appendix A (“Transitive Planes”). 


UNARMED STRIKE 

Instead of using a weapon to make a melee attack, 

you can use a punch, kick, head-butt, or similar 

forceful blow. In game terms, this is an Unarmed 

Strike—a melee attack that involves you using your 

body to damage, grapple, or shove a target within 5 

feet of you. 

Whenever you use your Unarmed Strike, choose 
one of the following options for its effect. 

Damage. You make an attack roll against the tar- 
get. Your bonus to the roll equals your Strength 
modifier plus your Proficiency Bonus. On a hit, the 
target takes Bludgeoning damage equal to 1 plus 
your Strength modifier. 

Grapple. The target must succeed on a Strength 
or Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or it 
has the Grappled condition. The DC for the saving 
throw and any escape attempts equals 8 plus your 
Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus. This 
grapple is possible only if the target is no more than 

| one size larger than you and if you have a hand free 

| to grab it. See also “Grappling.” 


Shove. The target must succeed ona Strength 
or Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or 
you either push it 5 feet away or cause it to have 
the Prone condition. The DC for the saving throw 
equals 8 plus your Strength modifier and Profi- 
ciency Bonus. This shove is possible only if the tar- 
get is no more than one size larger than you. 


Р 


Unconscious [CONDITION] 
While you have the Unconscious condition, you ex- 
perience the following effects. 

Inert. You have the Incapacitated and Prone 
conditions, and you drop whatever you're holding. 
When this condition ends, you remain Prone. 

Speed О. Your Speed is О and can't increase. 

Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have 
Advantage. 

Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail 
Strength and Dexterity saving throws. 

Automatic Critical Hits. Any attack roll that hits 


you is a Critical Hit if the attacker is within 5 feet of 
you. 


Unaware. You're unaware of your surroundings. 


UNOCCUPIED SPACE 


A space is unoccupied if no creatures are in it and it 
isn't completely filled by objects. 


UTILIZE [Action] 

You normally interact with an object while doing 
something else, such as when you draw a sword as 
part of the Attack action. When an object requires 
an action for its use, you take the Utilize action. 


VULNERABILITY 

If you have Vulnerability to a damage type, damage 
of that type is doubled against you. Vulnerability is 
applied only once to an instance of damage. See also 
chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing"). 


WEAPON 


A weapon is an object that is in the Simple or 
Martial weapon category. See also chapter 6 
("Weapons"). 


WEAPON ATTACK 


A weapon attack is an attack roll made with a 
weapon. See also "Weapon." 


EI IE n n ay а 


mp 


Aasimar, 186 
A Balanced Party sidebar, 
36 
A Bard's Repertoire 
sidebar, 61 
abbreviations, 360 
Aberrant Sorcery 
subclass, 145 
Aberrant Spirit stat block, 
322 
Aberration creature type, 
364 
ability, 10 
check, 10, 360 
Ability Check Examples 
table, 11 
Ability Descriptions table, 
10 
ability modifier, 10, 360 
determination, 38 
Ability Modifiers table, 10 
ability score, 10, 360 
adjustment, 38 
and modifier, 360 
assignment, 38 
generation, 38 
Ability Score 
Improvement class 
feature, 53, 61, 71, 81, 
92, 103, 111, 120, 130, 
141, 155, 167 
Ability Score 
Improvement feat, 202 
Ability Score Point Costs 
table, 38 
Ability Scores and 
Backgrounds table, 36 
Ability Scores and 
Modifiers table, 38 
Ability Scores table, 10 
Abjure Foes class feature, 
111 
Abjurer subclass, 172 
Abyss, 344 
Abyssal language, 37 
Abyssal Tiefling, 196 
Acheron, 344 
Acid, 222 
Acid damage, 365 
Acid Splash spell, 239 
Acolyte background, 178 
Acrobatic Movement 
class feature, 103 
Acrobatics skill, 14 
action, 15, 360 
Attack, 361 
Dash, 365 
Disengage, 366 
Dodge, 366 
Help, 368 
Hide, 368 
Influence, 369 
Magic, 371 
Ready, 372 
Search, 373 
Study, 375 
Utilize, 377 
Action, Bonus, 362 


cw tm 


Actions table, 15 

Action Surge class 
feature, 91 

Actor feat, 202 

adjust ability scores, 38 

advancement, level, 41 

Advantage, 12, 360 

adventure, 8, 360 

adventuring gear, 222 

Adventuring Gear table, 
223 

Agonizing Blast 
invocation, 155 

Aid spell, 239 

Air, Elemental Plane of, 
344 

Airborne and Waterborne 
Vehicles table, 230 

Airship, 230 

Alarm spell, 239 

Alchemist's Fire, 222 

Alchemist's Supplies, 220 

Alert feat, 200 

alignment, 39, 360 

ally, 361 

Alter Self spell, 239 

always-prepared spells, 
235 

Ambusher's Leap, 125 

ammunition, 222 

Ammunition property, 
213 


Ammunition table, 222 

Animal Friendship spell, 
239 

Animal Handling skill, 14 

Animal Messenger spell, 
240 

Animal Shapes spell, 240 

Animate Dead spell, 240 

Animated Object stat 
block, 241 

Animate Objects spell, 
240 

Antilife Shell spell, 241 

Antimagic Field spell, 241 

Antipathy/Sympathy spell, 
242 


Antitoxin, 222 

Ape stat block, 346 

appearance, character, 38 

Aquan language dialect, 
37 

Arborea, 344 

Arcadia, 344 

Arcana skill, 14 

Arcane Apotheosis class 
feature, 141 

Arcane Eye spell, 242 

Arcane Focus, 224 

Arcane Focuses table, 
224 

Arcane Gate spell, 242 

Arcane Lock spell, 242 

Arcane Recovery class 
feature, 166 

Arcane Trickster 
Spellcasting table, 133 


Arcane Trickster subclass, 
132 
Arcane Vigor spell, 242 
Archdruid class feature, 
82 
Archery feat, 209 
Archfey Patron subclass, 
159 
Archfey Spells table, 159 
area of effect, 361 
Cone, 364 
Cube, 364 
Cylinder, 364 
Emanation, 366 
Line, 370 
Sphere, 374 
Areas of Knowledge table, 
375 
Arid Land circle spells 
table, 84 
aristocratic lifestyle, 231 
armor, 219 
Armor Class (AC), 12, 
41, 361 
base, 12 
calculating, 12 
Armor of Agathys spell, 
243 


Armor of Shadows 
invocation, 155 
Armor table, 219 
armor training, 219, 361 
Arms of Hadar spell, 243 
Arrow, 222 
Artisan background, 178 
Artisan's Tools, 220 
Ascendant Step 
invocation, 155 
Ash, Para-elemental 
Plane of, 344 
Assassin subclass, 134 
assign ability scores, 38 
Astral Plane, 344 
Astral Projection spell, 243 
Athlete feat, 202 
Athletics skill, 14 
attack, 15, 361 
action, 15, 361 
making an, 25 
melee, 26 
Opportunity, 26, 371 
ranged, 26 
ranged, in close 
combat, 26 
spell, 238 
weapon, 377 
attack roll, 12, 361 
Attack Roll Abilities table, 
12 
attitude, 361 
Friendly, 367 
Hostile, 368 
Indifferent, 369 
Attunement, 232, 361 
Augury spell, 244 
Aura Expansion class 
feature, 111 


Auran language dialect, 
37 
Aura of Courage class 
feature, 111 
Aura of Life spell, 244 
Aura of Protection class 
feature, 111 
Aura of Purity spell, 244 
Aura of Vitality spell, 244 
avoiding Opportunity 
Attacks, 26 
Awaken spell, 244 
axes, 215 
background, character, 
177 
Backgrounds and Species 
from Older Books 
sidebar, 38 
Backpack, 224 
Badger, Giant, stat block, 
350 
Badger stat block, 346 
bagpipes, 221 
Balanced Party, A 
sidebar, 36 
Ball Bearings, 224 
Bane spell, 245 
Banishing Smite spell, 245 
Banishment spell, 245 
Barbarian class, 49, 51 
Barbarian Features 
table, 52 
Core Barbarian Traits 
table, 51 
subclasses, 54 
Bard class, 49, 59 
Bard Features table, 60 
Core Bard Traits table, 
59 
spell list, 62 
subclasses, 64 
Bardic Inspiration class 
feature, 59 
Bardic Inspiration die, 59 
barding, 229 
Bard's Repertoire, A, 
sidebar, 61 
Barkskin spell, 245 
Barrel, 224 
base AC, 12 
Basic Poison, 227 
Basket, 224 
Bat stat block, 346 
Battleaxe, 215 
Battle Master subclass, 
93 
Beacon of Hope spell, 245 
Bear, Black, stat block, 
346 
Bear, Brown, stat block, 
347 
Beast creature type, 364 
Beastlands, 344 
Beast Master subclass, 
122 
Beast of the Land stat 
block, 123 


Beast of the Sea stat 
block, 124 
Beast of the Sky stat 
block, 124 
Beast Sense spell, 245 
Beast Shapes table, 81 
Beast Spells class feature, 
81 
Bedroll, 224 
Befuddlement spell, 245 
being a player, 7 
being the Dungeon 
Master, 7 
Bell, 224 
Bestial Spirit stat block, 
323 
Bestow Curse spell, 246 
Bigby's Hand spell, 246 
Black Bear stat block, 346 
Blade Barrier spell, 247 
Blade Ward spell, 247 
Blanket, 224 
Bless spell, 247 
Blessed Strikes class 
feature, 71 
Blight spell, 247 
Blinded condition, 361 
Blind Fighting feat, 209 
Blinding Smite spell, 247 
Blindness/Deafness spell, 
248 
Blindsight, 361 
Blink spell, 248 
Block and Tackle, 224 
Bloodied, 362 
Blowgun, 215 
blowgun needle. See 
Needle, 222 
Bludgeoning damage, 
365 
Blur spell, 248 
Boar stat block, 347 
boats, 230 
Body and Mind class 
feature, 103 
Bolt, 222 
Bolt Case, Crossbow, 224 
Bonus, Proficiency, 11, 13 
Bonus Action, 15, 362 
Bonus Feats at Level 20 
sidebar, 43 
Book, 224 
Book of Shadows. See Pact 
of the Tome, 157 
Boon of Combat Prowess 
feat, 210 
Boon of Dimensional 
Travel feat, 210 
Boon of Energy 
Resistance feat, 210 
Boon of Fate feat, 210 
Boon of Fortitude feat, 
710 
Boon of Irresistible 
£35 nse feat, 211 
Bos: of Recovery feat, 
zn 


Boon of Skill feat, 211 
Boon of Speed feat, 211 
Boon of Spell Recall feat, 
211 
Boon of the Night Spirit 
feat, 211 
Boon of Truesight feat, 
211 
Bottle, Glass, 224 
bows, 215 
Branding Smite spell. See 
Shining Smite, 316 
breaking objects, 20, 362 
Breaking Your Oath 
sidebar, 111 
Breastplate, 219 
Brewer's Supplies, 220 
brewing healing potions, 
233 
brewing Potions of 
Healing, 233 
Bright Light, 19, 362 
Brown Bear stat block, 
347 
Brutal Strike class 
feature, 53 
Bucket, 224 
Bullets, 222 
Bullseye Lantern, 226 
Burglar's Pack, 224 
Burning Hands spell, 248 
burning hazard, 362 
Burrow Speed, 362 
Bytopia, 344 
calculating AC, 12 
Calligrapher's Supplies, 
220 
Call Lightning spell, 248 
Calm Emotions spell, 249 
Caltrops, 224 
Camel stat block, 347 
campaign, 8, 362 
Candle, 224 
cantrip, 362 
capacity, carrying, 362 
Carceri, 344 
cards, playing, 221 
Careful Spell metamagic, 
141 
cargo, and mount, 229 
Carpenter's Tools, 220 
Carriage, 230 
carrying capacity, 362 
Carrying Capacity table, 
363 
carrying objects, 20 
Cart, 230 
Cartographer's Tools, 220 
Case, Crossbow Bolt, 224 
Case, Map or Scroll, 224 
Cast a Spell action. See 
Magic, 15, 371 
Casting in Armor sidebar, 
235 
casting spells, 235 
casting time, 236 
casting without slots, 235 
Cat stat block, 347 
Celestial creature type, 
364 
Celestial language, 37 
Celestial Patron subclass, 
160 
Celestial Spells table, 160 
Celestial Spirit stat block, 
323 


Chain, 224 

Chain Lightning spell, 249 

Chain Mail, 219 

Chain Shirt, 219 

Challenge Rating (CR), 
363 


Champion subclass, 96 
Channel Divinity class 
feature, 70, 110 
Chaos, Elemental, 344 
Chaotic Evil (CE), 39 
Chaotic Good (CC), 39 
Chaotic Neutral (CN), 39 
character, 7 
appearance, 38 
background, 177 
classes, 49 
create a, 33 
death/demise, 28 
gaining a level, 42 
origin, 177 
personality, 38 
player, 372 
species, 177 
stabilizing a, 29 
Character Advancement 
table, 41 
character creation, 33 
ability scores, 38 
alignment, 39 
class, 33 
origin, 36 
starting at higher 
levels, 43 
character sheet, 33-35, 
363 
Charger feat, 202 
Chariot, 230 
Charisma, 10 
Charlatan background, 
179 
Charmed condition, 363 
Charm Monster spell, 249 
Charm Person spell, 249 
Chef feat, 202 
Chest, 225 
Chill Touch spell, 249 
choose a class, 33 
choose an alignment, 39 
Chromatic Orb spell, 249 
Chthonic Tiefling, 196 
Circle of Death spell, 250 
Circle of Power spell, 250 
Circle of the Land 
subclass, 84 
Circle of the Moon Spells 
table, 86 
Circle of the Moon 
subclass, 86 
Circle of the Sea Spells 
table, 87 
Circle of the Sea 
subclass, 87 
Circle of the Stars 
subclass, 88 
Clairvoyance spell, 250 
class, choose a, 33 
classes, character, 49 
Class Overview table, 33 
class spell lists, 236 
Cleansing Touch class 
feature. See Restoring 
Touch, 111 
Cleave mastery property, 
214 
Cleric class, 49, 69 


жетте ун» 


Cleric Features table, 
70 } 

Core Cleric Traits table, 
69 


spell list, 71 
subclasses, 73 

Climber's Kit, 225 

climbing, 363 

Climb Speed, 363 

Clockwork Sorcery 
subclass, 146 

Clockwork Spells table, 
146 

Clone spell, 251 

Clothes, Fine, 225 

Clothes, Traveler's, 225 

Cloudkill spell, 251 

Cloud of Daggers spell, 
251 

Club, 215 

Cobbler's Tools, 220 

coins, 213 

Coin Values table, 213 

Cold damage, 365 

College of Dance 
subclass, 64 

College of Glamour 
subclass, 65 

College of Lore subclass, 
66 

College of Valor subclass, 
67 

Color Spray spell, 251 

combat, 23 
mounted, 26 
order of, 23 
step by step, 23 
underwater, 27 

impeded weapons, 
27 

comfortable lifestyle, 231 

Command spell, 251 

Common language, 37 

Common Sign Language, 
37 

Commune spell, 252 

Commune with Nature 
spell, 252 

Compelled Duel spell, 252 

component, 236 
Material (M), 237 
Somatic (S), 236 
Verbal (V), 236 

Component Pouch, 225 

Comprehend Languages 
spell, 252 

Compulsion spell, 252 

Concentration, 363 

condition, 29, 363 
Blinded, 361 
Charmed, 363 
Deafened, 365 
Exhaustion, 366 
Frightened, 367 
Grappled, 367 
Immunity, 369 
Incapacitated, 369 
Invisible, 370 
Paralyzed, 371 
Petrified, 372 
Poisoned, 372 
Prone, 372 
Restrained, 373 
Stunned, 376 
Unconscious, 377 

Cone, area of effect, 364 


Cone of Cold spell, 253 
Confusion spell, 253 
Conjure Animals spell, 254 
Conjure Barrage spell, 254 
Conjure Celestial spell, 254 
Conjure Elemental spell, 
254 
Conjure Fey spell, 255 
Conjure Minor Elementals 
spell, 255 
Conjure Volley spell, 255 
Conjure Woodland Beings 
spell, 255 
Constitution, 10 
Constrictor Snake stat 
block, 348 
Construct creature type, 
364 
Construct Spirit stat 
block, 324 
Contact Other Plane spell, 
255 
Contact Patron class 
feature, 155 
Contagion spell, 256 
Contingency spell, 256 
Continual Flame spell, 
256 
controlling a mount, 26 
Control Water spell, 256 
Control Weather spell, 257 
Cook’s Utensils, 220 
Copper Piece (CP), 213 
Cordon of Arrows spell, 
258 
Core Barbarian Traits 
table, 51 
Core Bard Traits table, 59 
Core Cleric Traits table, 
69 
Core Druid Traits table, 
79 
Core Fighter Traits table, 
91 
Core Monk Traits table, 
101 
Core Paladin Traits table, 
109 
Core Ranger Traits table, 
119 
Core Rogue Traits table, 
129 
Core Sorcerer Traits table, 
139 
Core Warlock Traits table, 
153 
Core Wizard Traits table, 
165 
Costume, 225 
Countercharm class 
feature, 61 
Counterspell spell, 258 
cover, 25, 364 
Cover table, 26 
Crab, Giant, stat block, 
350 
Crab stat block, 348 
Crafter feat, 200 
crafting equipment, 233 
crafting nonmagical 
items, 233 
crawling, 364 
create a character, 33 
Create Food and Water 
spell, 258 


чё fore ame GIÁM 


Create or Destroy Water 
spell, 258 
Create Undead spell, 258 


Creating Spell Slots table, 
141 


Creating Verbal 


Components sidebar, 
237 


Creation spell, 259 
creature, 364 
creature size, 25 
Creature Size and Space 
table, 25 
creature stat blocks, 346 
creature type, 364 
crew, 230 
Criminal background, 179 
Critical Hit, 27, 364 
Crocodile stat block, 348 
crossbow bolt. See Bolt, 
222 
Crossbow Bolt Case, 224 
Crossbow Expert feat, 203 
crossbows, 215 
Crowbar, 225 
Crown of Madness spell, 
259 
Crusader's Mantle spell, 
259 
Crusher feat, 203 
Cube area of effect, 364 
Cunning Action class 
feature, 130 
Cunning Strike class 
feature, 130 
Cure Wounds spell, 259 
currency, 213 
curse, 364 
Cylinder area of effect, 
364 
d3,9 
d4,9 
d6,9 
d8,9 
d10,9 
412,9 
420,9 
D20 Test, 9, 10, 364 
d100, 9 
Dagger, 215 
damage, 9, 27, 364 
against multiple 
targets, 28 
half, 28 
healing, 28 
Immunity, 369 
massive, 28 
order of application, 28 
Resistance, 373 
saving throws and, 28 
types, 28, 365 
Vulnerability, 377 
damage roll, 27, 364 
damage threshold, 364 
Damage Types table, 365 
Dancing Lights spell, 259 
Danger Sense class 
feature, 52 
Darkness, 19, 365 
Darkness spell, 260 
Darkvision, 365 
Darkvision spell, 260 
Dart, 215 
Dash action, 15, 365 
Daylight spell, 260 
Deafened condition, 365 


death, 365 
character, 28 
Hit Point maximum of 
0, 28 
instant, 28 
massive damage, 28 
monster, 28 
Death Saving Throw, 28, 
365 
Death Ward spell, 261 
Deception skill, 14 
Deep Speech language, 
37 
Defense feat, 209 
Defensive Duelist feat, 
203 
Deflect Attacks class 
feature, 102 
Deflect Energy class 
feature, 103 
Deflect Missiles. See 
Deflect Attacks, 102 
Deft Explorer class 
feature, 120 
dehydration hazard, 365 
Delayed Blast Fireball 
spell, 261 
Demiplane spell, 261 
Destroy Undead class 
feature. See Sear 


Undead, 71 

Destructive Wave spell, 
261 

Detect Evil and Good 
spell, 261 

Detect Magic spell, 262 

Detect Poison and Disease 
spell, 262 

Detect Thoughts spell, 262 


Devil's Sight invocation, 
155 

Devious Strikes class 
feature, 131 

Devouring Blade 
invocation, 155 

Dexterity, 10 

dice, 9 
Bardic Inspiration, 59 
Martial Arts, 101 
notation, 9 
percentile, 9 

Difficult Terrain, 24, 366 

Difficulty Class (DC), 
11, 366 

Dimension Door spell, 262 

Dim Light, 19, 366 

Diplomat's Pack, 225 

Dire Wolf stat block, 348 

Disadvantage, 12, 366 

Disciplined Survivor class 
feature, 103 

Disengage action, 15, 366 

Disguise Kit, 221 

Disguise Self spell, 262 

Disintegrate spell, 263 

dismounting, 26 

Dispel Evil and Good spell, 
263 

Dispel Magic spell, 264 

Dissonant Whispers spell, 
264 

Distant Spell metamagic, 
141 

Divination spell, 264 

Divine Favor spell, 265 


Divine Intervention class 
feature, 71 

Divine Order class 
feature, 70 

Diviner subclass, 173 

Divine Smite spell, 265 

Divine Word spell, 265 

Dodge action, 15, 366 

Domain Spells class 
feature, 73, 74, 75, 77 

Dominate Beast spell, 265 

Dominate Monster spell, 
265 

Dominate Person spell, 
266 

Draconic Ancestors table, 


187 

Draconic language, 37 

Draconic Sorcery 
subclass, 148 

Draconic Spells table, 148 

Draconic Spirit stat block, 
325 

Draft Horse stat block, 
349 

Dragonborn, 187 

dragonchess, 221 

Dragon creature type, 364 

Dragon's Breath spell, 266 

Drawmij's Instant 
Summons spell, 266 

Dream spell, 266 

drink, 231 

dropping prone, 25 

dropping to 0 Hit Points, 
28 

Drow, 189 

Druid class, 49, 79 
Core Druid Traits table, 

79 

Druid Features table, 80 
spell list, 82 
subclasses, 84 

Druidcraft spell, 266 

Druidic class feature, 80 

Druidic Focus, 225 

Druidic Focuses table, 
225 

Druidic language, 37 

drum, 221 

Dual Wielder feat, 203 

Dueling feat, 209 

dulcimer, 221 

Dungeoneer's Pack, 225 

Dungeon Master, 4, 7 

Durable feat, 203 

Dwarf, 188 

Dwarvish language, 37 

Earth, Elemental Plane 
of, 344 

Earthquake spell, 267 

Eldritch Blast spell, 267 

Eldritch Invocation 
options, 155 

Eldritch Invocations class 
feature, 153 

Eldritch Knight 
Spellcasting table, 97 

Eldritch Knight subclass, 
96 

Eldritch Master class 
feature, 155 

Eldritch Mind invocation, 
155 

Eldritch Smite invocation, 
155 


Eldritch Spear invocation, 
155 

Electrum Piece (EP), 213 

Elemental Adept feat, 203 

Elemental Chaos, 344 

Elemental creature type, 
364 

Elemental Fury class 
feature, 81 

Elementalism spell, 267 

Elemental Planes, 344 

Elemental Spirit stat 
block, 325 

Elemental Weapon spell, 
268 

Elephant stat block, 349 

Elf, 189 

Elk stat block, 349 

Elusive class feature, 131 

Elven Lineages table, 190 

Elvish language, 37 

Elysium, 344 

Emanation area of effect, 
366 

Empowered Spell 
metamagic, 142 

Empowered Strikes class 
feature, 103 

Empty Body class feature. 
See Superior Defense, 
103 

encounter, 366 

encumbrance. See 
carrying capacity, 362 

enemy, 366 

Enhance Ability spell, 268 

Enlarge/Reduce spell, 268 

Ensnaring Strike spell, 268 

Entangle spell, 268 

Entertainer background, 
180 

Entertainer's Pack, 225 

Enthrall spell, 269 

Epic Boon class feature, 
53, 61, 71, 81, 92, 103, 
111, 121, 131, 141, 
155, 167 

Epic Boon feats, 210 

equipment, 213 
crafting, 233 
proficiency, 14 

Etherealness spell, 269 

Ethereal Plane, 344 

Evard's Black Tentacles 
spell, 270 

Evasion class feature, 
103, 131 

Evoker subclass, 174 

Exceptions Supersede 
General Rules 
sidebar, 8 

Exhaustion condition, 
366 

Expanding and Replacing 
a Spellbook sidebar, 
167 

Expeditious Retreat spell, 
270 

expense, lifestyle, 230 

Experience Points (XP), 
366 

Expertise, 367 

Expertise class feature, 
60, 121, 129 

exploration, 19 

Explorer's Pack, 225 


Extended Spell 
metamagic, 142 
Extra Attack class feature, 
53, 92, 103, 111, 120 
Eyebite spell, 270 
Fabricate spell, 271 
Faerie Fire spell, 271 
Faithful Steed class 
feature, 111 
falling hazard, 367 
falling off a mount, 27 
falling unconscious, 28 
False Life spell, 271 
Familiar. See Find 
Familiar, 272 
Farmer background, 180 
Fast Crafting table, 201 
Fast Movement class 
feature, 53 
Favored Enemy class 
feature, 119 
Fear spell, 271 
feat, 199 
Epic Boon, 210 
Fighting Style, 209 
General, 202 
Origin, 200 
Feather Fall spell, 271 
Feat List table, 199 
Feeblemind spell. See 
Befuddlement, 245 
Feign Death spell, 271 
Feral Instinct class 
feature, 53 
Feral Senses class 
feature, 121 
Fey creature type, 364 
Fey Spirit stat block, 326 
Fey-Touched feat, 204 
Fey Wanderer Spells 
table, 124 
Fey Wanderer subclass, 
124 
Feywild, 344 
Feywild Gifts table, 124 
Fiend creature type, 364 
Fiendish Legacies table, 
197 
Fiendish Spirit stat block, 
327 
Fiendish Vigor 
invocation, 155 
Fiend Patron subclass, 
161 
Fiend Spells table, 161 
Fighter class, 49, 91 
Core Fighter Traits 
table, 91 
Fighter Features table, 
92 
subclasses, 93 
Fighting Style class 
feature, 91, 110, 120 
Fighting Style feats, 209 
Find Familiar spell, 272 
finding hidden objects, 20 
Find Steed spell, 272 
Find the Path spell, 273 
Find Traps spell, 273 
Fine Clothes, 225 
Finesse property, 213 
Finger of Death spell, 273 
Fire, Elemental Plane 
of, 344 
Firearm Bullet, 222 
Fireball spell, 274 


Fire Bolt spell, 274 
Fire damage, 365 
Fire Shield spell, 274 
Fire Storm spell, 275 
Fixed Hit Points by Class 
table, 42 
Flail, 215 
Flame Blade spell, 275 
Flame Strike spell, 275 
Flaming Sphere spell, 275 
Flask, 225 
Flesh to Stone spell, 275 
Flexible Casting. See Font 
of Magic, 140 
flute, 221 
flying, 367 
Fly Speed, 367 
Fly spell, 276 
Focus, Arcane, 224 
Focus, Druidic, 225 
Focus, Spellcasting, 374 
Foe Slayer class feature, 
121 
Fog Cloud spell, 276 
Font of Inspiration class 
feature, 61 
Font of Magic class 
feature, 140 
food, 231 
Food, Drink, and Lodging 
table, 231 
Food Needs per Day 
table, 371 
Forbiddance spell, 276 
Forcecage spell, 276 
Force damage, 365 
Foresight spell, 276 
Forest Gnome, 191 
Forgery Kit, 221 
Fount of Moonlight spell, 
277 
Freedom of Movement 
spell, 277 
Friendly attitude, 367 
Friends spell, 277 
Frightened condition, 367 
Frog stat block, 349 
gaining a level, 42 
gaining spells, 235 
Galley, 230 
Gaming Set, 221 
Gargantuan, 25 
Gaseous Form spell, 277 
Gate spell, 277 
Gaze of Two Minds 
invocation, 156 
gear, adventuring, 222 
Geas spell, 278 
Gehenna, 344 
General feats, 202 
generate ability scores, 38 
Gentle Repose spell, 278 
Giant Badger stat block, 
350 
Giant Crab stat block, 350 
Giant creature type, 364 
Giant Coat stat block, 
350 
Giant Insect spell, 279 
Giant Insect stat block, 
279 
Giant language, 37 
Giant Seahorse stat 
block, 350 
Giant Spider stat block, 
351 


Giant Weasel stat block, 
351 
Gift of the Depths 
invocation, 156 
Gift of the Protectors 
invocation, 156 
Glaive, 215 
Glassblower's Tools, 220 
Glass Bottle, 224 
Glibness spell, 279 
Globe of Invulnerability 
spell, 279 
Gloom Stalker Spells 
table, 126 
Gloom Stalker subclass, 
125 
glossary, rules, 360 
Glyph of Warding spell, 
279 
Gnome, 191 
Gnomish language, 37 
Goat, Giant, stat block, 
350 
Goat stat block, 351 
Goblin language, 37 
Gold Piece (GP), 213 
Goliath, 192 
Goodberry spell, 280 
Grappled condition, 367 
Grappler feat, 204 
grappling, 367 
Grappling Hook, 225 
Grasping Vine spell, 280 
Graze mastery property, 
214 
Grease spell, 280 
Greataxe, 215 
Greatclub, 215 
Greater Divine 
Intervention class 
feature, 71 
Greater Invisibility spell, 
281 
Greater Restoration spell, 
281 
Great Old One Patron 
subclass, 162 
Great Old One Spells 
table, 163 
Greatsword, 215 
Great Weapon Fighting 
feat, 209 
Great Weapon Master 
feat, 204 
Guard background, 181 
Guardian of Faith spell, 
281 
Guards and Wards spell, 
282 
Guidance spell, 282 
Guide background, 181 
Guiding Bolt spell, 282 
Guild Artisan. See 
Artisan, 178 
Guild Merchant. See 
Merchant, 182 
Gust of Wind spell, 282 
Hades, 344 
Hail of Thorns spell, 283 
Halberd, 215 
Half Cover, 26 
half damage, 28 
Halfling, 193 
Halfling language, 37 
Half Plate Armor, 219 
Hallow spell, 283 


Hallucinatory Terrain 
spell, 283 
hammers, 215 
Handaxe, 215 
Hand Crossbow, 215 
Harm spell, 283 
Haste spell, 284 
Hawk stat block, 352 
hazard, 20, 368 
burning, 362 
dehydration, 365 
falling, 367 
malnutrition, 371 
suffocation, 376 
Healer feat, 201 
Healer's Kit, 225 
healing, 28, 368 
damage and, 27 
stabilizing a character, 
29 
Healing, Potion of, 228 
Healing Word spell, 284 
Heal spell, 284 
Heat Metal spell, 284 
Heavily Armored feat, 204 
Heavily Obscured, 19, 368 
Heavy, 213 
Heavy armor, 219 
Heavy Armor Master 
feat, 204 
Heavy Crossbow, 215 
Heavy property, 213 
Heightened Focus class 
feature, 103 
Heightened Spell 
metamagic, 142 
Hellish Rebuke spell, 284 
Help action, 15, 368 
Herbalism Kit, 221 
Hermit background, 182 
Heroes' Feast spell, 284 
Heroic Inspiration, 13, 
368 
Heroic Inspiration 
sidebar, 13 
Heroism spell, 285 
Hex spell, 285 
Hide action, 15, 368 
Hide Armor, 219 
hiding, 19 
High Elf, 189 
High Jump, 368 
hireling, 232 
Hirelings table, 232 
History skill, 14 
Hit, Critical, 27 
Hit Dice, 41, 368 
Hit Point Dice, 41, 368 
Hit Point maximum of 
0, 28 
Hit Points, 27, 368 
dropping to 0, 28 
Temporary, 29, 376 
Hold Monster spell, 285 
Hold Person spell, 286 
Holy Aura spell, 286 
Holy Symbol, 226 
Holy Symbols table, 226 
Holy Water, 226 
Hooded Lantern, 226 
Hook, Grappling, 225 
horn, 221 
Horse, Draft, stat block, 


349 
Horse, Riding, stat block, 
356 


Human, 194 


Humanoid creature type, 
364 


Hunger of Hadar spell, 
286 


Hunter's Mark spell, 287 

Hunter subclass, 127 

Hunting Trap, 226 

Hypnotic Pattern spell, 
287 

Ice, Para-elemental Plane 
of, 344 

Ice Knife spell, 287 

Ice Storm spell, 287 

identifying a magic item, 
232 

Identifying an Ongoing 
Spell sidebar, 238 

Identify spell, 287 

Ignan language dialect, 
37 

Illusion, 369 

Illusionist subclass, 175 

Illusory Script spell, 288 

Immunity, 28, 369 

impeded weapons, 
underwater combat, 27 

Imprisonment spell, 288 

Improved Blessed Strikes 
class feature, 71 

Improved Brutal Strike 
class feature, 53 

Improved Cunning Strike 
class feature, 131 

Improved Divine Smite. 
See Radiant Strikes, 
111 

Improved Elemental Fury 
class feature, 81 

improvised weapon, 369 

Improvised Weapons 
sidebar, 214 

Imp stat block, 352 

Incapacitated condition, 
369 

Incendiary Cloud spell, 
288 

Indifferent attitude, 369 

Indomitable class feature, 
92 

Indomitable Might class 
feature, 53 

Infernal language, 37 

Infernal Tiefling, 196 

Inflict Wounds spell, 288 

Influence action, 15, 369 

Influence Checks table, 
369 

Initiative, 23, 369 

Initiative order, 23 

Ink, 226 

Ink Pen, 226 

Innate Sorcery class 
feature, 139 

Inner Planes, 344 

Insect Plague spell, 289 

Insight skill, 14 

Inspiration. See Heroic 
Inspiration, 368 

Inspiring Leader feat, 204 

instant death, 28 

Instinctive Pounce class 
feature, 53 


Instrument, Musical, 221 

Intelligence, 10 

interacting with objects, 
19 


interaction, social, 16 
Interception feat, 209 
Interpreting Die Rolls in 
the Story sidebar, 9 
Intimidation skill, 14 
Investigation skill, 14 
Investment of the Chain 
Master invocation, 156 
Invisible condition, 370 
Invisibility spell, 289 
Iron Pot, 228 
Iron Spikes, 228 
items, 233 
crafting nonmagical, 
233 
wearing, 233 
wielding, 233 
Jack of All Trades class 
feature, 60 
Jallarzi’s Storm of 
Radiance spell, 289 
Javelin, 215 
Jeweler's Tools, 220 
Jug, 226 
Jump, High, 369 
Jump, Long, 370 
jumping, 370 
Jump spell, 290 
Keelboat, 230 
Keen Mind feat, 205 
Ki class feature. See 
Monk's Focus, 101 
Ki-Empowered Strikes 
class feature. See 
Empowered Strikes, 
103 
ki points. See Monk's 
Focus, 101 
knocking out a creature, 
29, 370 
Knocking Out a Creature 
sidebar, 28 
Knock spell, 290 
Ladder, 226 
Lamp, 226 
Lance, 215 
language, 37 
lanterns, 226 
Large, 25 
Lawful Evil (LE), 39 
Lawful Good (LG), 39 
Lawful Neutral (LN), 39 
Lay On Hands class 
feature, 109 
Leather Armor, 219 
Leatherworker's Tools, 
220 
Legend Lore spell, 290 
Leomund's Secret Chest 
spell, 290 
Leomund's Tiny Hut spell, 
291 
Lesser Restoration spell, 
291 
Lessons of the First Ones 
invocation, 156 
level advancement, 41 
Level 1 Hit Points by 
Class table, 40 
Levitate spell, 291 
Life Domain Spells table, 
73 


Life Domain subclass, 73 
Lifedrinker invocation, 156 
lifestyle expense, 230 
aristocratic, 231 
comfortable, 231 
modest, 231 
poor, 231 
squalid, 231 
wealthy, 231 
wretched, 230 
Light, 19 
Bright, 19, 362 
Dim, 19, 366 
Light armor, 219 
Light Crossbow, 215 
Light Domain Spells 
table, 74 


Light Domain subclass, 
74 


Light Hammer, 215 
Lightly Armored feat, 205 
Lightly Obscured, 19, 370 
Lightning Arrow spell, 292 
Lightning Bolt spell, 292 
Lightning damage, 365 
Light property, 213 
Light spell, 292 
Limbo, 344 
Line area of effect, 370 
Lion stat block, 352 
Lizard stat block, 353 
Loading property, 214 
Locate Animals or Plants 
spell, 292 
Locate Creature spell, 292 
Locate Object spell, 293 
Lock, 226 
lodging, 231 
Longbow, 215 
Long Jump, 370 
Long Rest, 370 
Longship, 230 
Longstrider spell, 293 
Longsword, 215 
Lucky feat, 201 
lute, 221 
lyre, 221 
Mace, 215 
Mage Armor spell, 293 
Mage Hand spell, 293 
Mage Slayer feat, 205 
Magic action, 15, 371 
Magical Cunning class 
feature, 154 
magical effect, 371 
Magical Secrets class 
feature, 61 
Magic Circle spell, 293 
Magic Initiate feat, 201 
magic item, 232 
identifying a, 232 
Magic Jar spell, 294 
Magic Missile spell, 295 
Magic Mouth spell, 295 
Magic Weapon spell, 29 
Magma, Para-elementa 
Plane of, 344 
Magnifying Glass, 226 
Mail, Chain, 219 
Mail, Ring, 219 
Mail, Scale, 219 
Major Image spell, 295 
making an attack, 25 
rtuni 


á Be 
malnutrition hazard, 


Manacles, 226 

Manifestations of Order 
table, 146 

Map, 227 

Map Case, 224 

Marching Order sidebar, 
20 

Martial Archetype class 
feature. See Fighter 
Subclass, 92 

Martial Arts class feature, 


101 
Martial Melee weapon, 
213 
Martial Ranged weapon, 
213 
Martial Weapon Training 
feat, 205 
Mask of Many Faces 
invocation, 156 
Mason's Tools, 221 
Mass Cure Wounds spell, 
296 
Mass Healing Word spell, 
296 
Mass Heal spell, 296 
massive damage, 28 
Mass Suggestion spell, 296 
Master of Myriad Forms 
invocation, 156 
mastery property, 214 
Mastiff stat block, 353 
Material component (M), 
237 
Material Plane, 344 
Maul, 215 
Maze spell, 296 
Mechanus, 344 
Medicine skill, 14 
Medium, 25 
Medium armor, 219 
Medium Armor Master 
feat, 205 
Meld into Stone spell, 296 
melee attack, 26 
melee attack bonus, 41 
Melee weapon, 213 
Melf's Acid Arrow spell, 
297 
Memorize Spell class 
feature, 167 
Mending spell, 297 
Merchant background, 
182 
Message spell, 298 
Metamagic class feature, 
141 
metamagic options, 141 
Meteor Swarm spell, 298 
Mind Blank spell, 298 
Mind Sliver spell, 298 
Mind Spike spell, 298 
Minor Illusion spell, 298 
Mirage Arcane spell, 299 
Mirror, 227 
Mirror Image spell, 299 
Mislead spell, 299 
Misty Step spell, 299 
Misty Visions invocation, 
156 
Moderately Armored feat, 
205 
modest lifestyle, 231 
modifier, ability, 10, 360 
Modify Memory spell, 299 


Monastic Tradition class 
feature. See Monk 
Subclass, 103 

Monk class, 49, 101 
Core Monk Traits table, 


101 
Monk Features table, 
102 
subclasses, 104 
Monk's Focus class 
feature, 101 
Monk weapon, 101 
monster, 371 
monster death, 28 
Monstrosity creature 
type, 364 
Moonbeam spell, 300 
Mordenkainen's Faithful 
Hound spell, 300 
Mordenkainen's 
Magnificent Mansion 
spell, 300 
Mordenkainen's Private 
Sanctum spell, 301 
Mordenkainen's Sword 
spell, 302 
Morningstar, 215 
mount, 26, 229 
and cargo, 229 
controlling a, 26 
falling off a, 27 
mounting a, 26 
travel on a, 20 
Mount Celestia, 344 
mounted combat, 26 
Mounted Combatant 
feat, 205 
Mounts and Other 
Animals table, 229 
Move Earth spell, 302 
movement, 24 
around other creatures, 
25 
breaking up your, 26 
through Difficult 
Terrain, 25 
Mule stat block, 353 
multiclassing, 44 
Multiclass Spellcaster: 
Spell Slots per Spell 
Level table, 45 
multiverse, 344 
Musical Instrument, 221 
Musician feat, 201 
Musket, 215 
Mystic Arcanum class 
feature, 155 
Natural Explorer class 
feature. See Deft 
Explorer, 120 
natural 1, 12 
natural 20, 12 
Nature skill, 14 
Nature's Veil class 
feature, 121 
Nature's Ward table, 85 
Navigator's Tools, 221 
Necrotic damage, 365 
Needle, 222 
Net, 227 
Neutral (N), 39 
Neutral Evil (NE), 39 
Neutral Good (NC), 39 
Nick mastery property, 
214 
Nine Hells, 344 


Noble background, 183 

Nondetection spell, 302 

nonplayer character 
(NPC), 371 

Nystul's Magic Aura spell, 
302 

Oath of Devotion Spells 
table, 113 

Oath of Devotion 
subclass, 113 

Oath of Glory Spells 
table, 115 

Oath of Glory subclass, 
114 

Oath of the Ancients 
Spells table, 115 

Oath of the Ancients 
subclass, 115 

Oath of Vengeance Spells 
table, 117 

Oath of Vengeance 
subclass, 116 

object, 20, 371 
breaking, 20, 362 
carrying, 20 
finding hidden, 20 
interacting with, 19 

time-limited, 20 

Object Armor Class table, 
362 

Object Hit Points table, 
362 

Obscured, Heavily, 19, 
368 

Obscured, Lightly, 19, 370 

obscured area, 19 

Observant feat, 205 

occupied space, 371 

Octopus stat block, 353 

Oil, 227 

One with Shadows 
invocation, 156 

Ooze, Para-elemental 
Plane of, 344 

Ooze creature type, 364 

Opportunity Attack, 26, 
371 
avoiding an, 26 
making an, 26 

Orc, 195 

Orc language, 37 

order of combat, 23 

origin, character, 177 

origin, determine, 36 

Origin feats, 200 

Otherworldly Leap 
invocation, 156 

Otherworldly Patron class 
feature. See Warlock 
Subclass, 154 

Otherworldly Steed stat 
block, 273 

Otiluke’s Freezing Sphere 
spell, 302 

Otiluke's Resilient Sphere 
spell, 303 

Otto's Irresistible Dance 
spell, 303 

Outer Planes, 344 

Outer Planes table, 344 

Outlands, 344 

Owl stat block, 354 

pace, travel, 20 

Pact Magic class feature, 


153 


Pact of the Blade 
invocation, 156 

Pact of the Chain 
invocation, 157 

Pact of the Tome 
invocation, 157 

Padded Armor, 219 

Painter's Supplies, 221 

Paladin class, 49, 109 
Core Paladin Traits 

table, 109 
Paladin Features table, 
110 

spell list, 112 
subclasses, 113 

Paladin's Smite class 
feature, 110 

Pandemonium, 344 

pan flute, 221 

Panther stat block, 354 

Paper, 227 

Para-elemental Planes, 
344 

Paralyzed condition, 371 

Parchment, 227 

passenger, 230-231 

Passive Perception, 40, 
372 

Passwall spell, 303 

Pass without Trace spell, 
303 

Path of the Berserker 
subclass, 54 

Path of the Totem Warrior 
subclass. See Path of 
the Wild Heart, 55 

Path of the Wild Heart 
subclass, 55 

Path of the World Tree 
subclass, 56 

Path of the Zealot 
subclass, 57 

Pen, Ink, 226 

percentage chances, 9 

percentile dice, 9 

Perception, Passive, 40, 
372 

Perception skill, 14 

per day, 372 

Perfect Focus class 
feature, 103 

Performance skill, 14 

Perfume, 227 

Persistent Rage class 
feature, 53 

personality, character, 38 

Personality Traits by 
Alignment table, 40 

Persuasion skill, 14 

Petrified condition, 372 

Phantasmal Force spell, 
304 

Phantasmal Killer spell, 
304 

Phantom Steed spell, 304 

Pick, War, 215 

pick locks. See Thieves' 
Tools, 221 

Piercer feat, 206 

Piercing damage, 365 

Pike, 215 

Pistol, 215 

Planar Ally spell, 304 

Planar Binding spell, 305 

Plane, Astral, 344 

Plane, Ethereal, 344 


Plane, Material, 34 

Plane Shift spell, 

Plant creature type, 364 

Plant Growth spell, 305 

Plate Armor, 219 

Platinum Piece (PP), 213 

play, rhythm of, 8 

player, being a, 7 

player character, 372 

playing cards, 221 

Playing on a Grid sidebar, 
25 

point cost ability score 
generation, 38 

Poison, Basic, 227 

Poison damage, 365 

Poisoned condition, 372 

Poisoner feat, 206 

Poisoner's Kit, 221 

Poison Spray spell, 306 

Polar Land circle spells 
table, 84 

Pole, 228 

Polearm Master feat, 206 

Polymorph spell, 306 

Pony stat block, 354 

poor lifestyle, 231 

Portable Ram, 228 

position, 24 

possession, 372 

Pot, Iron, 228 

Potion of Healing, 228 

Potter's Tools, 221 

Pouch, 228 

Pouch, Component, 225 

Power Word Fortify spell, 
306 

Power Word Heal spell, 
306 

Power Word Kill spell, 306 

Power Word Stun spell, 
306 

Prayer of Healing spell, 
307 


Precise Hunter class 
feature, 121 
preparing spells, 235 
Prestidigitation spell, 307 
Priest's Pack, 228 
Primal Champion class 
feature, 53 
Primal Knowledge class 
feature, 52 
Primal Order class 
feature, 80 
Primal Path class 
feature. See Barbarian 
Subclass, 52 
Primordial language, 37 
Prismatic Spray spell, 307 
Prismatic Wall spell, 308 
Produce Flame spell, 308 
proficiency, 13, 372 
equipment, 14 
saving throw, 14 
skill, 13 
tool, 220 
weapon, 213 
Proficiency Bonus, 13 
Proficiency Bonus table, 
13 
Programmed Illusion spell, 
309 
Project Image spell, 309 
prone, dropping, 25 
Prore condition, 372 


property, weapon, 213 
Protection feat, 209 
Protection from Energy 
spell, 309 
Protection from Evil and 
Good spell, 309 
Protection from Poison 
spell, 310 
Pseudodragon stat block, 
354 
Psionic Power class 
feature, 98 
Psionic Spells table, 145 
Psi Warrior Energy Dice 
table, 98 
Psi Warrior subclass, 98 
Psychic damage, 365 
punching. See Unarmed 
Strike, 377 
Purify Food and Drink 
spell, 310 
Push mastery property, 
214 
Quarterstaff, 215 
Quasit stat block, 355 
Quickened Spell 
metamagic, 142 
Quiver, 228 
race. See character 
species, 177 
Radiant damage, 365 
Radiant Strikes class 
feature, 111 
Rage class feature, 51 
Raise Dead spell, 310 
Ram, Portable, 228 
random generation, 
ability score, 38 
random tables, 9 
range, 26 
spell, 236 
ranged attack, 26 
in close combat, 26 
ranged attack bonus, 41 
Ranged weapon, 213 
Range property, 214 
Ranger class, 49, 119 
Core Ranger Traits 
table, 119 
Ranger Features table, 
120 
spell list, 121 
subclasses, 122 
Rapier, 215 
Rare Languages table, 37 
Rary's Telepathic Bond 
spell, 311 
Rations, 228 
Rat stat block, 355 
Raven stat block, 355 
Ray of Enfeeblement spell, 
311 
Ray of Frost spell, 311 
Ray of Sickness spell, 311 
reach, 26 
Reach property, 214 
Reaction, 15, 372 
Ready action, 15, 372 
Reckless Attack class 
feature, 52 
recovering ammunition. 
See ammunition, 213 
Reef Shark stat block, 356 
refitting plate armor. See 
equipment sizes, 219 
Regenerate spell, 311 


Reincarnate spell, 311 
Relentless Hunter class 
feature, 121 
Relentless Rage class 
feature, 53 
Reliable Talent class 
feature, 131 
Religion skill, 14 
Remove Curse spell, 312 
Repelling Blast 
invocation, 157 
Resilient feat, 206 
Resistance, 28, 373 
Resistance spell, 312 
Rest, Long, 370 
Rest, Short, 373 
Resting sidebar, 27 
Restoring Touch class 
feature, 111 
Restrained condition, 373 
Resurrection spell, 312 
Reverse Gravity spell, 312 
Revivification, 57 
Revivify spell, 312 
rhythm of play, 8 
Riding Horse stat block, 
356 
Ring Mail, 219 
Ritual, 373 
Ritual Adept class 
feature, 166 
Ritual Caster feat, 206 
Robe, 228 
Rock Gnome, 191 
Rogue class, 49, 129 
Core Rogue Traits 
table, 129 
Rogue Features table, 
130 
subclasses, 132 
roleplaying, 16 
Rope, 228 
Rope Trick spell, 312 
round down, 373 
Round Down sidebar, 8 
Roving class feature, 121 
Rowboat, 230 
rules glossary, 360 
Sack, 228 
Sacred Flame spell, 313 
Sacred Oath class 
feature. See Paladin 
Subclass, 111 
Sacred Weapon class 
feature, 113 
saddles, 229-230 
Sage background, 183 
Sailing Ship, 230 
Sailor background, 184 
Sanctuary spell, 313 
Sap mastery property, 214 
Savage Attacker feat, 201 
save, 373 
saving throw, 11, 373 
and damage, 28 
proficiency, 14 
spell, 238 
Saving Throw, Death, 29 
Saving Throw Examples 
table, 12 
Scale Mail, 219 
Scholar class feature, 166 
Scholar's Pack, 228 
Schools of Magic table, 
236 
Scimitar, 215 


Scorching Ray spell, 313 

Scorpion stat block, 356 

Scribe background, 184 

scribing Spell Scrolls, 233 

Scroll, Spell, 228 

Scroll Case, 224 

Scrying spell, 313 

Seahorse, Giant, stat 
block, 350 

Search action, 15, 373 

Search table, 373 

Searing Smite spell, 314 

Sear Undead class 
feature, 71 

Second Wind class 
feature, 91 

See Invisibility spell, 314 

Seeking Spell metamagic, 
142 

Seeming spell, 314 

Self-Restoration class 
feature, 103 

Selling Equipment 
sidebar, 213 

Sending spell, 314 

senses, special, 19 

Sentinel feat, 207 

Sequester spell, 315 

services, 230 

Session Zero sidebar, 33 

Shadowfell, 344 

Shadow-Touched feat, 
207 

Shapechange spell, 315 

shape-shifting, 373 

Shark, Reef, stat block, 
356 

Sharpshooter feat, 207 

Shatter spell, 316 

shawm, 221 

Shield, 219 

Shield Master feat, 207 

Shield of Faith spell, 316 

Shield spell, 316 

Shillelagh spell, 316 

Shining Smite spell, 316 

ships, 230 

Shocking Grasp spell, 316 

Shortbow, 215 

Short Rest, 373 

Shortsword, 215 

Shovel, 228 

shoving. See Unarmed 
Strike, 377 

Sickle, 215 

Sigil, 344 

Signal Whistle, 228 

Signature Spells class 
feature, 167 

Silence spell, 316 

Silent Image spell, 317 

Silver Piece (SP), 213 

Simple Melee weapon, 
213 

Simple Ranged weapon, 
213 

Simulacrum spell, 317 

simultaneous effects, 374 

size, 25, 374 

Skeleton stat block, 356 

skill, 374 
proficiency, 13 

Skilled feat, 201 

Skill Expert feat, 207 

Skills table, 14 


Skills with Different 
Abilities sidebar, 14 
Skulker feat, 208 


Slaad Tadpole stat block, 
357 


Slasher feat, 208 
Slashing damage, 365 
Sled, 230 
Sleep spell, 317 
Sleet Storm spell, 317 
Sleight of Hand skill, 14 
Sling, 215 
Sling Bullet, 222 
Slippery Mind class 
feature, 131 
Slow spell, 318 
Slow Fall class feature, 
103 
Slow mastery property, 
214 
Small, 25 
Smith's Tools, 221 
Snake, Constrictor, stat 
block, 348 
Snake, Venomous, stat 
block, 358 
Sneak Attack class 
feature, 129 
social interaction, 16 
Soldier background, 185 
Somatic component (S), 
236 
Sorcerer class, 49, 139 
Core Sorcerer Traits 
table, 139 
Sorcerer Features 
table, 140 
spell list, 142 
subclasses, 145 
Sorcerous Burst spell, 318 
Sorcerous Restoration 
class feature, 141 
Sorcery Incarnate class 
feature, 141 
Sorcery Points, 141 
Soulknife Energy Dice 
table, 135 
Soulknife subclass, 135 
space, occupied, 371 
space, unoccupied, 377 
Spare the Dying spell, 318 
Speak with Animals spell, 
318 
Speak with Dead spell, 
318 
Speak with Plants spell, 
319 
Spear, 215 
special senses, 19 
species, character, 177 
Speed, 374 
Burrow, 362 
Climb, 363 
Fly, 367 
Swim, 376 
Speedy feat, 208 
spell, 374 
always-prepared, 235 
attack, 374 
attack modifier, 238 
casting, 235 
casting time, 236 
casting without slots, 
235 
components, 236 
Material (M), 237 


Somatic (S), 236 
Verbal (V), 236 
descriptions, 239 
duration, 237 
effects, 237 
gaining, 235 
level, 235 
preparing, 235 
range, 236 
save DC, 238 
saving throw, 238 
slots, 235 
using a higher-level 
spell slot, 236 
Spellcasting class feature, 
59, 69, 79, 109, 119, 
139, 165 
Spellcasting Focus, 374 
Spellcasting Services 
table, 232 
spell list, Bard, 62 
spell list, Cleric, 71 
spell list, Druid, 82 
spell list, Paladin, 112 
spell list, Ranger, 121 
spell list, Sorcerer, 142 
spell list, Warlock, 157 
spell list, Wizard, 168 
spell lists, class, 236 
Spell Mastery class 
feature, 167 
Spell Preparation by Class 
table, 235 
spells, 235 
Spell Scroll, 228 
Spell Scroll, scribing, 233 
Spell Scroll Costs table, 
233 
Spell Sniper feat, 208 
Sphere area of effect, 374 
Sphinx of Wonder stat 
block, 357 
Spider Climb spell, 319 
Spider, Giant, stat block, 
351 
Spider stat block, 357 
Spike Growth spell, 319 
Spikes, Iron, 228 
Spirit Guardians spell, 319 
Spiritual Weapon spell, 319 
Splint Armor, 219 
Sprite stat block, 358 
Spyglass, 229 
squalid lifestyle, 231 
squeezing. See Difficult 
Terrain, 24, 366 
stabilizing a character, 29 
Stable, 374 
Staggering Smite spell, 
320 


standard array, ability 
score generation, 38 

Standard Array by Class 
table, 38 

Standard Languages 
tablc, 37 

Star Map table, 88 

Starry Wisp spell, 320 

starting at higher levels, 
43 

Starting Equipment at 
Higher Levels table, 43 

starvation. See 
malnutrition, 371 | 

stat block, 374 

stat blocks, creature, 346 


INDEX 9: 38 


Steady Aim class feature, 
130 
Stealth skill, 14 
Steel Wind Strike spell, 
320 
Stillness of Mind class 
feature. See Self- 
Restoration, 103 
Stinking Cloud spell, 321 
Stone Shape spell, 321 
Stoneskin spell, 321 
Storm of Vengeance spell, 
321 
Strength, 10 
String, 229 
Stroke of Luck class 
feature, 131 
Studded Leather Armor, 
219 
Studied Attacks class 
feature, 92 
Study action, 15, 375 
Stunned condition, 376 
Stunning Strike class 
feature, 103 
Subtle Spell metamagic, 
142 
suffocation hazard, 376 
Suggestion spell, 321 
Summon Aberration spell, 
322 
Summon Beast spell, 322 
Summon Celestial spell, 
323 
Summon Construct spell, 
324 
Summon Dragon spell, 
324 
Summon Elemental spell, 
325 
Summon Fey spell, 326 
Summon Fiend spell, 326 
Summon Undead spell, 
328 
Sunbeam spell, 329 
Sunburst spell, 329 
Superior Defense class 
feature, 103 
Superior Inspiration class 
feature, 61 
surprise, 23, 376 
Survival skill, 14 
Swift Quiver spell, 329 
swimming, 376 
Swim Speed, 376 
swords, 215 
Sylvan language, 37 
Symbol spell, 329 
Synaptic Static spell, 330 
tables, random, 9 
Tack, Harness, and 
Drawn Vehicles table, 
230 
Tactical Master class 
feature, 92 
Tactical Mind class 
feature, 91 


5 Tactical Shift class 


- feature, 92 


target, 376 
os aid Cauldron 


Telekinetic feat, 208 
Telepathic feat, 208 
telepathy, 376 
Telepathy spell, 331 
teleportation, 376 
Teleportation Circle spell, 
332 
Teleport spell, 331 
Temperate Land circle 
spells table, 85 
Temporary Hit Points, 
29, 376 
Tenser's Floating Disk 
spell, 332 
Tent, 229 
Terran language dialect, 
37 
Thaumaturgy spell, 333 
Thief subclass, 137 
Thieves' Cant class 
feature, 129 
Thieves' Cant language, 
37 
Thieves' Tools, 221 
Thirsting Blade 
invocation, 157 
Thorn Whip spell, 333 
three-dragon ante, 221 
Three Extra Attacks class 
feature, 92 
Three-Quarters Cover, 26 
Thrown property, 214 
Thrown Weapon Fighting 
feat, 210 
Thunderclap spell, 333 
Thunder damage, 365 
Thunderous Smite spell, 
334 
Thunderwave spell, 334 
Tiefling, 196 
tiers of play, 43 
Tiger stat block, 358 
Timeless Body class 
feature. See Self- 
Restoration, 103 
time-limited object 
interaction, 20 
Time Stop spell, 334 
Tinderbox, 229 
Tinker's Tools, 221 
Tiny, 25 
Tireless class feature, 121 
Toll the Dead spell, 334 
Tongues spell, 334 
tool proficiency, 220 
tools, 220 
Topple mastery property, 
214 


Torch, 229 

Total Cover, 26 

Tough feat, 202 

transitive planes, 344 

Transmuted Spell 
metamagic, 142 

Transport via Plants spell, 
334 

Trap, Hunting, 226 

traps, finding, removing, 
disabling. See Thieves' 
Tools, 221 

travel, 20, 231 

Traveler’ 5 sass, 225 


Tremorsense, 377 

Trickery Domain Spells 
table, 75 

Trickery Domain 
subclass, 75 

Trident, 215 

trinkets, 46 

Trinkets table, 46 

Tropical Land circle spells 
table, 85 

True Polymorph spell, 335 

True Resurrection spell, 
336 

True Seeing spell, 336 

Truesight, 377 

True Strike spell, 336 

Tsunami spell, 336 

Turn Undead. See 
Channel Divinity, 70 

Twinned Spell 
metamagic, 142 

Two Extra Attacks class 
feature, 92 

Two-Handed property, 
214 

Two-Weapon Fighting 
feat, 210 

Typical Difficulty Classes 
table, 11 

Unaligned Creatures 
sidebar, 39 

Unarmed Fighting feat, 
210 

Unarmed Strike, 377 

Unarmored Defense class 
feature, 51, 101 

Unarmored Movement 
class feature, 102 

Uncanny Dodge class 
feature, 131 

Uncanny Metabolism 
class feature, 102 

unconscious, falling, 28 

Unconscious condition, 
377 

Undead creature type, 
364 

Undead Spirit stat block, 
328 

Undercommon language, 
37 

underwater combat, 27 

unoccupied space, 377 

Unseen Attackers and 
Targets sidebar, 26 

Unseen Servant spell, 336 

Use an Object. See 
Utilize, 15, 377 

using a higher-level spell 
slot, 236 

Utilize action, 15, 377 

Vampiric Touch spell, 337 

Vanish class feature. See 
Nature's Veil, 121 

Variant: Equipment Sizes 
sidebar, 219 

vehicle, 20, 229 

Venomous Snake stat 
block, 358 

Verbal component (V), 
236 

Versatile property, 214 

Vex mastery property, 214 

ial, 229 

M 


Whistle, Signal, 228 


vision and light, 19 
Visions of Distant Realms 
invocation, 157 
Vitriolic Sphere spell, 337 
Vulnerability, 377 
damage, 28 
Wagon, 230 
Wall of Fire spell, 338 
Wall of Force spell, 338 
Wall of Ice spell, 339 
Wall of Stone spell, 339 
Wall of Thorns spell, 339 
War Caster feat, 209 
Warding Bond spell, 340 
War Domain Spells table, 
77 
War Domain subclass, 76 
Warhammer, 215 
Warhorse stat block, 359 
Warlock class, 49, 153 
Core Warlock Traits 
table, 153 
spell list, 157 
subclasses, 159 
Warlock Features table, 
154 
War Pick, 215 
Warrior of Mercy 
subclass, 104 
Warrior of Shadow 
subclass, 105 
Warrior of the Elements 
subclass, 106 
Warrior of the Open 
Hand subclass, 107 
Warship, 230 
Water, Elemental Plane 
of, 344 
Water, Holy, 226 
Water Breathing spell, 340 
Water Needs per Day 
table, 365 
Waterskin, 229 
Water Walk spell, 340 
Wayfarer background, 185 
wealthy lifestyle, 231 
weapon, 213, 377 
attack, 377 
improvised, 369 
Martial, 213 
mastery property, 214 
Melee, 213 
Monk, 101 
proficiency, 213 
property, 213 
Ranged, 213 
Simple, 213 
Weapon Master feat, 209 
Weapon Mastery class 
feature, 52, 91, 110, 
120, 129 
Weapons table, 215 
wearing items, 233 
Weasel, Giant, stat block, 
351 
Weasel stat block, 359 
Weaver's Tools, 221 
Web spell, 340 
Weird spell, 341 
What Would Your 
Character Do? sidebar, 
15 
Whip, 215 
Whispers of the Grave 
invocation, 157 


wielding items, 233 

Wild Companion class 
feature, 81 

Wild Magic Sorcery 
subclass, 149 

Wild Magic Surge table, 
150 

Wild Resurgence class 
feature, 81 

Wild Shape class feature, 
80 

Wind Walk spell, 341 

Wind Wall spell, 341 

Wisdom, 10 

Wish spell, 341 

Witch Bolt spell, 343 

Witch Sight invocation, 
157 

Wizard class, 49, 165 
Core Wizard Traits 

table, 165 
spell list, 168 
subclasses, 172 
Wizard Features table, 
166 

Wolf, Dire, stat block, 348 

Wolf stat block, 359 

Woodcarver's Tools, 221 

Wood Elf, 189 

Word of Radiance spell, 
343 

Word of Recall spell, 343 

Words of Creation class 
feature, 61 

Wrathful Smite spell, 343 

wretched lifestyle, 230 

Yolande's Regal Presence 
spell, 343 

Ysgard, 344 

0 Hit Points, dropping 
to, 28 

Zombie stat block, 359 

Zone of Truth spell, 343 


PLAYERS HANDBOOK 


