ge 


Ok 
ANCESTRAL WENPONS 


WEAPON noe RULES 


© 


“Rules ör magical heirloom y weapons, for use 
WW the world's S gg uncatest roleplaying game. 


_ 


<x Poni 


EARON 


WENDON CHEAMION RULES 


a k 


SS 
DUNGEON//\/\|ROLLERS 
AA 


By MATT VAUGHAN 


A Dungeon Rollers Product 


Writing: Matt Vaughan 
Layout: Matt Vaughan 
Editing: David Lane, James Braund. 
Additional Thanks: David Lane, Matt Kelly, James Braund, Laura-Jade Kleé and Rob Tew for playtesting and writing the 
amazing items found in Chapter 6. The Adventurer’s Guild of Holmsgarth for additional playtesting and to ideas discussion. 
Cover Art: Fernando Gregory Milan, used under license 
Internal Art: Chapter art by Kostic Dusan. Some artwork ©2019 by Samantha 
Darcy. Internal vector imagery Nathanaél Roux Additional art Creator 
Resource, supplied by Wizards of the Coast. All used with permission. 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, WIZARDS OF THE COAST, FORGOTTEN REALMS, THE DRAGON AMPERSAND, PLAYER'S HANDBOOK, MONSTER MANUAL, DUNGEON MASTER'S GUIDE, D&D ADVENTURERS 
LEAGUE, ALL OTHER WIZARDS OF THE COAST PRODUCT NAMES, AND THEIR RESPECTIVE LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OF WIZARDS OF THE COAST IN THE USA AND OTHER COUNTRIES. ALL CHARACTERS AND 


‘THEIR DISTINCTIVE LIKENESSES ARE PROPERTY OF WIZARDS OF THE COAST, THIS MATERIAL IS PROTECTED UNDER THE COPYRIGHT LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. ANY REPRODUCTION OR 
UNAUTHORIZED USE OF THE MATERIAL OR ARTWORK CONTAINED HEREIN IS PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN PERMISSION OF WIZARDS OF THE COAST. 


©2019 Wizanps oF THE Coast LLC, PO Box 707, RENTON, WA 98057-0707, USA. MANUFACTURED BY HASBRO SA, RUE EMILE-BOÉCHAT 31, 2800 DELÉMONT, CH. REPRESENTED By HASBRO EUROPE, 
4 THE SQUARE, STOCKLEY PARK, UXBRIDGE, MIDDLESEX, UB11 1ET, UK. 


CONTENTS 


Griffon’s Rest.. 
Keshykiin Ilmaa 
Staff of the Homing Tree ... 
The Windblade 
App. A: Crafting Tables 


Overwriting Upgrades 
Refocusing Ancestral Weapons .... 
Attunement.. 


Ancestral Traits 
Ch. 2: Upgrades 
Upgrade List . 
Upgrade Descriptions 


Introduction..... 2 Ch. 3: Ancestral Traits ..... 
Overview .. al Ch. 4: Creating non-Ancestral Magic Weapons .. 
The Spirit Point system 2 Quick-Build Magic Items... 
How to use this produci 3 Example Quick-Build Items...... 
Ch. 1: Ancestral Weapons... 3 Crafting Magic Items.... 
Who wields Ancestral Weapons 3 Example Crafted Items 
Spirit Points 3 Ch. 5: Weapon History . 
Ancestral Weapons Step-by-Step. 4 History of the Weapon ... 
Buying Upgrades.. nel Physical Properties .. eer 
Upgrades Restrictions 4 Ch. 6: Example Ancestral Weapons 
Limited Upgrades s Summaries.. 
5 
2205) 
5 
S 
6 
am) 
sen 


ON THE COVER 

The lost sword, left abandoned in a stone waiting for the rightful 
heir to come and stake their claim. Illustrated by Fernando Gregory 
Milan, this evocotive piece of artwork shows an abandoned 
Ancestral Weapon shining in the light of a moonlit forest. 


Disclaimer: Dungeon Rollers is not responsible for angering ancestors and/or 
spirits due to the actions of an individual, or individuals, wielding the here enclosed 
Ancestral Weapons’. Any demons, devils, dragons, liches, or any other monsters, 

creatures, or gods damaged or destroyed due to proper wielding of these ‘ancestral 


weapons’ are the responsibility of the adventurer, Dungeon Rollers accepts no fault. 


INTRODUCTION 


NOBLE BLADE WIELDED IN THE BLOOD WARS, AN 
axe used to protect the great city of Mirabar 
from orc invasions, or a powerful staff passed 
down through the aeons. Ancestral weapons, 
heirlooms, are iconic within roleplaying. These 
weapons embody a character’s family, story, 
and their history. These weapons are as important to many 
characters as their race, class, or background, to these people 
the opportunity to carry these items in their adventures is the 
true reward. 

Many of the legendary items within the DUNGEONS 
AND DRAGONS universe could be classified as an ancestral 
weapon, such as the Blackstaff, wielded by the Archmage 
of Waterdeep. This powerful staff was originally wielded 
by Khelben Arunsun, and has been passed down through 
the ages, with seven generations now having wielded this 
powerful artifact. The holder of this staff becomes known 
by the same name as the weapon, Blackstaff, and becomes 
master of the Blackstaff Tower. Currently wielded by Vajra 
Safahr, this weapon is as important in the history books as 
whoever bears this powerful talisman. It is recognised by 
those near and far as a symbol of strength. 

Ancestral weapons are not simply magic items to be 
discovered in a dusty vault, gifted by a thankful being, or 
wrestled from a terrible overlord. These weapons are cared 
for, honored and respected, and a mark of family, friendship, 
and history. 


OVERVIEW 


Ancestral weapons contains all the rules you need to bring 
these powerful items into your Dungeons and Dragons 
games. A character with an ancestral weapon will have it 
level up with them throughout the campaign. These weapons 
will develop their own unique traits and abilities to match 
their story and each character's playstyle. 

As the character performs acts that honor the memories 
of the ancestors who previously wielded this weapon, it 
will grow in power, unlocking upgrades that keep the item 
relevant through the campaign. 

There are over 130 different upgrades presented in 
this tome, everything from acting faster in the initiative 
order, to casting spells from the weapon. From dealing 
thunder damage when you strike an opponent to giving the 
wielder the power of flight. With tens of millions of possible 
combinations, these weapons can truly be shaped by your 
characters and their history. No longer will they cast aside 
their family blade when a +1 longsword turns up in a goblin. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS. 


THE Spirit Points SYSTEM 


The ‘Spirit Points’ system represents the power imbued in 
each ancestral weapon by the deeds it has wrought and the 
power of its forebearers. By using this system, the weapon 
will level up alongside a character. 

These points are handed out based on storyline 
progression, much as you would with other magic items. 
This means the character does not miss out on gaining these 
rewards as they progress through a story, earning spirit 
points is much like gaining a new magic weapon. 

Due to the flexibility of the spirit points system, this 
module also includes rules for generating standard magic 
weapons for Dungeon Masters to use in their games. 
Allowing you to quickly create anything from a simple 
uncommon rapier wielded by a bandit captain, to a legendary 
greataxe wielded by the Dwarven kings of old. 

Additionally, there are rules to allow the use of spirit 
points to craft magic weapons, including costs, time, and 
the usage of quest-driving unique reagents. This allows 
characters to forge their own thematic items through the 
cause of your campaigns. 


How To Use THis PRobucT 


This product can be used whenever a character has 
expressed in their backstory that they have had a family 
weapon passed down. Equally, you could decide that a 
character is to be gifted an ancestral weapon by a family 
member during the story. There are many reasons to 
include ancestral weaponry, and this extra level of character 
flexibility will be appreciated by the players. 

The rules for upgrading allow for three separate 
ways to develop an ancestral weapon. The first is for the 
player to choose their upgrades, deciding what suits their 
character better. The second option is that the Dungeon 
Master decides on the upgrades, building the item on a 
predetermined path based on its history. Thirdy, a DM may 
choose the options based on a character's actions. All of 
these options are equally as effective and depends on the 
group and players within as to which style suits you best. 

This toolset is designed as a way to add another layer of 
fun into Dungeons and Dragons. If there is an upgrade not 
contained within this module, and you think that would be 
suitable for this game, do not be afraid to add it. If you want 
the whole party to have these weapons, do it. There is no 
wrong way to use this product, so don your armor, grab your 
ancestral glaive, and it’s time to write some history! 


CHAPTER 1: ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


to wield these ancestral weapons, without being 
tempted to throw away their historical tribal 
glaive for the first magical weapon that crosses 
their path. As the player performs deeds seen 
as worthy in the eyes of their ancestors the 
weapon will earn Spirit Points. These points can be assigned, 
either by the DM or the player, to unlock powers within 

the weapon scaling it to the relevant content and allowing 

for a sense of progression. These upgrades can remain as 

the weapon grows in power, or be replaced with new more 
powerful abilities. 

This system allows for weapons to be suited to the 
character and the heirloom’s history, without causing an 
imbalance within the campaign. All ancestral weapons are 
magical, even when no upgrades are unlocked. Whilst not 
being sentient weapons, the powers are at the whim of the 
ancestors who wielded it. A character who uses the blade in 
ways that would bring great shame to their family may find 
the powers within it cease to function. At such a time, the 
weapon would perform as a mundane weapon of the same 
type, up until the ancestors deem the wielder worthy again. 


WHO WIELDS ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


Any character can wield an ancestral weapon. This should 
either be worked into the character's backstory or handed 
down to the character in a roleplay situation. An ancestral 
weapon that is found, or taken from a corpse, would not 
allow it s powers to be unlocked by the new bearer. Instead, 
an ancestral weapon held by a character not linked to 

the weapon by blood, or who has been gifted it, acts as a 
mundane weapon of that type. 

These rules work best when discussed with a player 
before a campaign begins, as they are largely story driven. It 
is entirely possible for a character who wields an ancestral 
weapon to not unlock any powers for it until later in a 
campaign, on a similar timeline to other players receiving 

magic weapons, or other similar upgrades. 


SPIRIT POINTS 


Spirit Points are the currency with which ancestral weapons 
are upgraded, and new abilities unlocked. Every upgrade 
has a cost which is paid for with spirit points that have been 
handed out by the DM. The higher the spirit point cost, the 
stronger the ability. 

A character will earn Spirit Points as they progress, at 
a rate of roughly 1 per character level - though it is strongly 
recommended that these points are kept separate from 
levelling and can be handed out in amounts varying from 1 to 
5. A character should never have more than spirit points than 
their character level plus 2. 

Spirit points are generally granted when a heroic, or a 
particularly evil (depending on the alignment of the character) 
act is performed. This could involve one of the following 
situations or similar: 

+ A monstrous beast terrorizing the city is killed 

+ Revenge has been achieved, this could have a family link the 

weapon is invested in 

+ Self sacrifice 

+ Achieving great renown 
When spirit points are earned a weapon will glow, pulse 
or emanate a spectral aura, indicating to the player that 
their ancestors are rewarding them for their actions. When 
the weapon receives its 20th spirit point, it also gains an 
additional 5 spirit points as the weapon unlocks the full 
power of its ancestors. 

Spirit points can be stored for future purchases, allowing 
a character to save up for more expensive upgrades. 

The rarity of an ancestral weapon is determined by the 
number of spirit points it currently has: 


Spirit Points Rarity 
o Common 
1-4 Uncommon 
5-9 Rare 
10-15 Very Rare 
16-25 Legendary 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS STEP-BY-STEP 
This ruleset is designed to be simple, flexible, and fun to use. 
The below steps show how to get started using ancestral 
weapons in your campaign. 
1, Determine who has an Ancestral Weapon. These weapons 
are not appropriate for every character. Discuss with your 
players to find out where these are best placed. A Dragon- 
born barbarian from a noble tribe is more likely to wield an 
ancestral weapon than a orphan who was left on the streets 
with nothing. Though that is not to say they may not discover 
their true birthright in the course of the campaign! 
2. Decide on the Ancestral Weapon type. An ancestral 
weapon remains with a character for the entire campaign, and 
as such this decision is crucial. The character can pick any 
item from the weapons list, even if this would not be included 
in their normal starting equipment. 
3. Determine starting Spirit Points. The DM decides the 
number of spirit points the weapon starts with. This can be 
anywhere from 0 to Character Level +2. 
4. Buy Starting Upgrades. Follow the ‘Buying Upgrades’ rules 
below to determine any starting upgrades. 
During the campaign the ancestral weapon will gain spirit 
points, the following process should be following this occuring: 
1. Spirit Points Gained. The DM determines the number 
of spirit points earned. The total, included any previously 
awarded, shall not exceed Character Level +2. 
2. Buy Upgrades. Either the player or the DM decides on any 
upgrades to be purchased, following the ‘Buying Upgrades’ 
rules below. Any previously unspent points can also be spent 
in this step. 
3. Store Points. Any unspent points are noted and stored for 
future purchases. 


Buyinc UPGRADES 


To add an upgrade to an ancestral weapon, a player must 
spend the number of spirit points as displayed in its 
description. ADM may choose to assign an upgrade to 

the ancestral weapon, instead of offering the player the 

spirit points directly. This represents the weapon having a 
predetermine path, unlocking powers it previously possessed. 
Some upgrades have a requirement, such as class, ability to 
cast spells, or type of weapon: 


RAMPAGING 

3 Spirit points, melee weapon only 

You have advantage on attacks with this weapon if you 
began your turn over 20 foot away from the target. 


In these cases, if the requirements are not met, this upgrade 
may not be applied to this ancestral weapon. If already 
present, such as in the case of the weapon being gifted after 
being upgraded, these upgrades will have no effect. 

Upgrades are grouped by ‘Tiers’, which relate to the Tiers 
of play. Each Tier of upgrade are unlocked at certain levels, as 
detailed in Chapter 2. A character cannot add upgrades to an 
ancestral weapon unless they are of sufficient level. 

You cannot remove upgrades unless you are overwriting 
them, or refocusing the weapon, both of which are detailed 
later in this chapter. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


UPGRADE RESTRICTIONS 


You can never have two upgrades with the same name. Some 
upgrades have a level, or subtype, displayed next to their 
name. These upgrades count as having the same name for the 
purpose of duplication, and are shown by having additional the 
level or subtype information displayed in brackets in their title: 


PROFICIENT (LEVEL 1) 
2 Spirit points 
You gain proficiency in a skill of your choice. 


OverPower (BRAWLER) 

2 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 

19 or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage 
from this weapon to make a DC 14 Strength saving throw, 
in addition to any damage caused. On a failed save, it is 
knocked prone. 


a — 
Betraying the Ancestors 
Sometimes characters will perform actions that are 
disrespectful to the ancestors who wielded it. In this 
situation, at the DMs discretion, it is possible that the 
powers of the ancestral weapon will fail. 
During this time the weapon will count as a mundane 
weapon of its normal type, until such a time as the 
ancestor’s respect has been renewed. 


7 


LIMITED UPGRADES 


Limited upgrades draw more power from the weapons 
ancestors. These upgrades have the limited tag alongside 
their cost: 


FLYING 
6 Spirit points, limited 
You gain a flying speed equal to your movement speed. 


Each ancestral weapon can only have 2 upgrades that are 
limited. If you have an item with a more than 2 limited 
upgrades, and wish to use another, you must overwrite one of 
the existing limited upgrades, following the overwriting rules 
found below. 


OVERWRITING UPGRADES 


Sometimes you will want to place an upgrade on an ancestral 
weapon, replacing one already there. To do this, when you buy 
the upgrade, you gain spirit points towards the upgrade equal 
to the original cost of the upgrade being overwritten. 


Isabella’s family warhammer, The Heavensworn, was 
gifted by her grandmother. Currently the weapon has the 
‘Enhanced Weapon (Level 1)’ upgrade applied. 

After gaining spirit points for downing Alarich von 
Wulmarch, she chooses to add the upgrade ‘Enhanced 
Weapon (Level 2): She overwrites the current ability, 
refunding 3 spirit points from ‘Enhanced Weapon (level 
1); and pays 6 spirit points for ‘Enhanced Weapon (level 
2)’-a net spend of 3 spirit points. 


An upgrade can only ever overwrite a single other upgrade 
already on the weapon, you can never remove multiple other 
abilities in order to equip a single other upgrade. 


REFOCUSING ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


Sometimes players may decide they wish to have a new 
effect on their ancestral weapon. It is up to the DM as to 
whether they allow the upgrades to be altered. This is called 
refocusing the weapon. 

If a player wishes to refocus the weapon, it should not be 
a trivial matter. The player should complete a quest, perform a 
séance with their ancestors, or similar. 


a o 
Refocusing versus Overwriting 
Despite the similarities of overwriting and refocusing, 
they are extremely different and should be used so. 
« Overwriting is used during the normal purchasing of 
upgrades, replacing one upgrade at a time. 
« Refocusing is used in extreme circumstances when 
a character decides they are not satisfied with the 
current makeup of their weapon, and wishes to make 
multiple alterations. This requires the DMs approval. 
< 


JF Ms Mo MF M ol 
Per Short/Long Rest 
Several upgrades have the text “per long rest”, or “per 
short rest”. This is used to avoid the complication of 
weapons having multiple charges associated with differ- 
ent upgrades. These effects can be used a set number 
of times, after which you must complete the type of rest 
stated before you are able to use the upgrade again. 


ATTUNEMENT 
Ancestral weapons require attunement to the bearer before 
their abilities are usable. An ancestral weapon that is not 
attuned will act as a mundane weapon of the weapon's type. A 
character who begins a campaign with an ancestral weapon, 
is attuned to it immediately. In all other circumstances, the 
bearer of an ancestral weapon may only attune to the weapon 
if one of the following criteria is met: 
+ The creature must have received the weapon as a gift from 
a creature attuned to the item 
+ Inthe case the creature attuned to this item has deceased, 
the creature must share a direct bloodline. 
In addition, the new bearer must keep the weapon on their 
person for at least one month before they attempt to attune to 
the item in the normal manner. 

Each time a creature attunes to an ancestral weapon, the 
DM must decide whether the weapon keeps at its current 
unlocked power level, starts at a reduced power level, or 
with 0 spirit points. In each case the new bearer can earn 
spirit points as normal. A character should not be gifted an 
ancestral weapon with spirit points greater than their current 
character level. 


ANCESTOR TRAITS 


Many ancestral weapons have small, minor effects that add 
character to the weapons. An ancestral item can start with 
these, or unlock them as more of its gifts are earnt. 

You can find a list of minor effects in Chapter 3: Ancestral 
Traits and Personalities of this module which will act as 
flavourful traits. The minor effects and quirks tables, found 
on page 143 of the Dungeon Master's Guide also provide you 
with a variety of options. 

If you wish to create these yourself, it is recommended 
that the item does not materially effect in game situations, 
and are instead designed just to add flavour to the item. 

When adding ancestor traits, you should consider the 
background of the weapon. Who wielded the the weapon? 
Where was it used? What foes has it vanquished? What race 
crafted it? You can create this content yourself, or use the 
tables in Chapter 3 to help you randomly develop this. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


CHAPTER 2: UPGRADES 


mag bhis chapter describes the upgrades available for 
ancestral weapons. The chapter begins with a 
summary of the upgrades, sorted by minimum 
level requirement in order to equip them to an 
item. These level requirements tie into the Tiers 
of play, as described in the Player's Handbook 
(page 15) . Following this you will find all the upgrades in 
alphabetical order, also by minimum level. Limited upgrades 


are listed before any other upgrades. 


TIER 1: LeveL 1+ UPGRADES 


Duelist (level 1) 


Enhanced Weapon (level 1) 


Infusion (level 1) 
Magus (level 1) 
Magical Core (level 1) 
Slayer (level 1) 

Spell Link (level 1) 
Spell Storing (level 1) 
Spell Storing (level 2) 
Bully 

Charmward 
Darkvision 
Deathward 

Fearward 

Focus 

Giant-Bane 

Gripped 

Guiding 


E7 4 


Hidden 

Hinge-Bane 
Indomitable (level 1) 
Jarring (level 1) 
Marksman 

Overpower (Brawler) 
Overpower (Brutish) 
Overpower (Dread) 
Overpower (Disarming) 
Overpower (Hamstring) 
Overpower (Poisonous) 
Poisonward 

Proficient (level 1) 
Quick 

Ritualist 

Shadowed 

Unflinching 

Willing 


TIER 2: LeveL 5+ UPGRADES 


Amplify (level 1) 
Duelist (level 2) 


Enhanced Weapon (level 2) 


Guardian (level 1) 
Keen (level 1) 
Magical Core (level 2) 
Spell Link (level 2) 
Spell Storing (level 3) 
Stern 

Barbaric 

Battlemage 

Blindside (level 1) 
Bolstering 

Challenge 

Charged Smite (level 1) 
Distracting (level 1) 
Divine Grace 

Divine Touch 
Doomerang 

En Guard 

Eye of the Storm 
Guard 

Hunter’s Watch 


Jarring (level 2) 
Mobile (level 1) 
Precise (level 1) 
Proficient (level 2) 
Piercing(level 1) 
Power of the Ancestors 
Quickshot 
Rampaging 
Reckless 
Reverberation 
Scout 

Sniping 
Spellhunter 
Sprightly 
Telepathic Link 
Transforming 
Transposed 
Trapped Spell 
Underhanded 
Vicious (level 1) 
Wild Spell 

Will of the Ancestors 


Tier 3: LeveL 10+ UPGRADES 


Duelist (level 3) Elemental Resistance 
Enhanced Weapon (level 3) | Focused 

Flying Hardy 

Infusion (level 2) Indomitable (level 2) 
Magical Core (level 3) Lashing 

Magus (level 2) Nemesis 

Spell Storing (level 4) Rapid Strike 

Spell Link (level 3) Proficient (level 3) 
Blindside (level 2) Shimmering 
Blood-drinker (level 1) Spelleater 

Brawn Spellhunter 
Charged Smite (level 2) Sustaining 
Distracting (level 2) Tracking 


Elemental Manipulation 


Will (level 1) 


Tier 4: LeveL 15+ UPGRADES 


Amplify (level 2) Mentor 
Guardian (level 2) Mobile (level 2) 
Magical Core (level 4) Piercing (level 2) 
Slayer (level 2) Power Surge 
Spell Storing (level 4) Precise (level 2) 
Spell Link (level 4) Proficient (level 4) 
Truesight Protective 
Beacon Rallying 
Blood-Drinker (level 2) Spectral Reach 
Dancing Venomous 
Homing Will (level 2) 
Keen (level 2) Whirlwind 


UPGRADE DESCRIPTIONS 


The below details the effects of each of the upgrades. They are 
presented in alphabetical order, with the exception of limited 
abilities that are listed before any other upgrades. 


Tier 1: LeveL 1+ UPGRADES 


DuE.ist (LEVEL 1) 
2 Spirit points, melee weapons only, limited 


When you are hit by a melee attack you can see, you can use 
your reaction to add 1 to your AC. 


ENHANCED WEAPON (LEVEL 1) 

3 Spirit points, limited 

You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this weapon. 


INFUSION (LEVEL 1) 

5 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose a damage type from: 
acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, necrotic, poison, psychic, 
radiant, and thunder. Your weapon attacks from this weapon 
deal an additional d6 damage of that type. 


Macus (LeveL 1) 

5 Spirit points, limited 

Whilst holding this weapon you have a+1 bonus to spell 
attack rolls and a +1 bonus to AC. 


Macicat Core (LeveL 1) 

2 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any cantrip. You can 
use an action to cast this cantrip from the weapon. You can 
use this ability twice per long rest. The spell attack bonus of 
this spell is +4, and the spell save DC is 12. 


Saver (LEVEL 1) 

5 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose an enemy type from, 
beasts, fey, humanoids, monstrosities, or undead. Your 
weapon attacks from this weapon deal 2d6 additional damage 
to all creatures of this type. 


SPELL LINK (LEVEL 1) 
2 Spirit points, spellcasters only, limited 


You gain an additional level 1 spell slot. This spell slot is 
refreshed on a long rest. 


SPELL STORING (LEVEL 1) 

2 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any level 1 spell. You 
can use an action to cast this spell from the weapon. You must 
complete a long rest before you can use this ability again. 


The spell attack bonus of this spell is +4, and the spell save 
difficulty is 12. 


SPELL STORING (LEVEL 2) 

4 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any level 2 spell. You 
can use an action to cast this spell from the weapon. You must 
complete a long rest before you can use this ability again. 

The spell attack bonus of this spell is +4, and the spell save 
difficulty is 12. 


BuLty 

1 Spirit point 

You gain advantage on Charisma (Intimidation) checks when 
the target can see you and you are holding this weapon. 


CHARMWARD 

1 Spirit point 

You have advantage on saving throws against the charmed 
condition. 


DARKVISION 

3 Spirit points 

You have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If you already 
have darkvision, increase the range by 60 feet. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


DEATHWARD 
1 Spirit point 
You have advantage on death saving throws. 


FEARWARD 

1 Spirit point 

You have advantage on saving throws against the frightened 
condition. 


Focus 
2 Spirit points, spellcasters only 
This weapon counts as a spellcasting focus. 


Giant-BANE 

4 Spirit points 

You weapon attacks deal an additional d6 damage to 
creatures of large size or larger. 


GRIPPED 
1 Spirit points 


You cannot be made to drop this weapon against your will. 


GUIDING 

1 Spirit point 

The weapon sheds bright light in a 15-foot radius, and dim 
light for an additional 15-foot. When you select this upgrade, 
you choose the color of the light. 


HIDDEN 
2 Spirit points 


You can use an action to speak this weapon's command word, 


the weapon appears as an diffferent item of a similar size 
until you speak the command word again to end this effect. 
The weapon retains all abilities during this time, and if a 
creature uses its action to examine the item, the creature 
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful DC 

12 Intelligence (Investigation) check. If a creature discerns 
the illusion for what it is, the illusion becomes faint to the 
creature. 


Hince-Bane 
1 Spirit point, melee weapons only 


You deal maximum damage against inanimate objects with 
attacks made from this weapon. 


INDOMITABLE (LEVEL 1) 
1 Spirit point 
When you are reduced to 0 hit points, you can immediately 


make an attack with this weapon before you fall unconscious. 


JARRING (LEVEL 1) 

2 Spirit points 

Any enemy that suffers damage from a weapon attack made 
by this weapon cannot make attacks of opportunity against 
you until the beginning of your next turn. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS, 


MARKSMAN 

3 Spirit points, ranged weapon only 

This weapon does not require physical ammo, upon readying 
this weapon a spectral arrow or bolt is notched that acts as 
magical ammo of its normal type. 


OverPOWER (BRAWLER) 

2 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 or 
20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon to make a DC 14 Strength saving throw, in addition to 
any damage caused. On a failed save, it is knocked prone. 


OverPoweR (BRUTISH) 

1 Spirit point 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 

or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon to make a DC 14 Strength saving throw, in addition to 
any damage caused. On a failed save, it is shoved 10 feet in a 
direction of your choice. 


OverPower (DREAD) 

2 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 

or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon to make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, in addition to 
any damage caused. On a failed save, it is frightened of you for 
1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a success. 


Overpower (DISARMING) 

2 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 

or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon to make a DC 14 Strength saving throw, in addition to 
any damage caused. On a failed save, you can target one item 
the creature is holding, it drops that item. If it is holding the 
item in two or more hands, it has advantage on this check. 


OVERPOwER (HAMSTRING) 

1 Spirit point 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 
or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon to make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, in addition 
to any damage caused. On a failed save, its movement speed 
is halved until your next turn. 


OverPoweR (Poisonous) 

2 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 
or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from 
this weapon to make a DC14 Constitution saving throw, in 
addition to any damage caused. On a failed save, it gains the 
poisoned condition. A creature can repeat the saving throw 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a 
success. 


GRUDGETAKER 
WARHAMMER WITH ENHANCED 
WEAPON (LeveL 1), Nemesis, 
OVERPOWER (DREAD), AND TRACKING. 


PolsoNwARD 

1 Spirit point 

You have advantage on saving throws against the poisoned 
condition. 


PROFICIENT (LEVEL 1) 
2 Spirit points 
You gain proficiency in a skill of your choice. 


Quick 
1 Spirit point 
You have advantage on initiative rolls. 


RITUALIST 

1 Spirit point 

The time to ritual cast spells is halved whilst this weapon is in 
your possession. 


SHADOWED 

1 Spirit point 

When in cover, you count the cover as being one degree 
higher than it is, for example 1⁄2 cover counts as % cover. 


UNFLINCHING 

1 Spirit point 

Being within 5 feet of a hostile creature doesn’t impose 
disadvantage on your ranged attack rolls. 


TERMINALUS 
Lonesworo WITH ENHANCED 
WEAPON (LEVEL 2), BLooD- 

ORINKER, KEEN, , ANO VICIOUS. 


WILLING 

1 Spirit point 

You can add 1d4 to a skill check, you may use this ability after 
rolling the check, but before you know if it was successful. 
You must declare you are using this feature before you make 
the roll, and you must complete a long rest before you can use 
this ability again. 


TIER 2: LeveL 5+ UPGRADES 


Awmp.iry (LEVEL 1) 

5 Spirit points, limited 

You gain +1 to an ability score of your choice, to a maximum 
of 20. 


DueLIsT (LEVEL 2) 
4 Spirit points, melee weapons only, limited 


When you are hit by a melee attack you can see, you can use 
your reaction to add 2 to your AC. 


ENHANCED WEAPON (LEVEL 2) 

6 Spirit points, limited 

You have a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this weapon. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPON 


Fire & Ice 
GREATAXE WITH ELEMENTAL 

ATTUNEMENT (FIRE), OVERPOWERED 
(Ice), AND Spet STORING (Lever 
1 - ABSORB ELEMENTS) 


Guarpian (LEVEL 1) 
4 Spirit points, limited 
You gain proficiency in a saving throw of your choice. 


KEEN (LEVEL 1) 

4 Spirit points, limited 

The weapon causes a critical hit when the d20 roll for an 
attack made with this weapon is a 19 or 20. 


Macicat Core (LEVEL 2) 

4 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any cantrip. You can 
use an action to cast this cantrip from the weapon. You can 
use this ability at will. The spell attack bonus of this spell is 
+4, and the spell save DC is 14. 


SPELL LINK (LEVEL 2) 
4 Spirit points, spellcasters only, limited 


You gain an additional level 2 spell slot. This spell slot is 
refreshed on a long rest. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS. 


THE SUNSTAFF 
QuarRTERSTAFF WITH Maus (LEVEL 
1), Buty, GUIDING, AND SPELL 
STORING (LEVEL 3 - DAYLIGHT) 


SPELL STORING (LEVEL 3) 

6 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any level 3 spell. You 
can use an action to cast this spell from the weapon. You must 
complete a long rest before you can use this ability again. 

The spell attack bonus of this spell is +6, and the spell save 
difficulty is 14. 


STERN 

4 Spirit points, requires a weapon with the heavy trait, limited 
At the beginning of your turn, you can declare you are using 
this ability. Until the beginning of your next turn, you gain a +2 
bonus to your AC, and your movement speed is reduced to 0. 
You cannot take any reactions whilst this ability is in effect. 


Barsaric 

2 Spirit points 

When you reduce a creature to 0 hit points with this weapon, 
you gain advantage on your next attack. 


BATTLEMAGE 
4 Spirit points, spellcasters only 


When you cast a spell, you can use your bonus action to make 
an attack with this weapon. 


BLInDsIDE (LEVEL 1) 

4 Spirit points, rogues only 

You increase the damage of your sneak attacks made by this 
weapon by d6. 


BOLSTERING 
2 Spirit points 
When you are the target of a spell that causes you to regain 


hit points, you regain additional hit points equal to your 
Constitution modifier. 


CHALLENGE 
4 Spirit points, barbarians only 


When you use the reckless attack feature nominate one 
creature you can see, that creature does not gain advantage 
against you from that feature until the start of your next turn. 


CHARGED SMITE (LEVEL 1) 

2 Spirit points, paladins only 

When you deal damage with the divine smite feature, you deal 
an additional d8 radiant damage. 


DISTRACTING (LEVEL 1) 

2 Spirit points, ranged weapons only 

You can use an action to make an attack with this weapon, 
after you do so you can move up to half your speed. This 
movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks. 


Divine Grace 

2 Spirit points, clerics only 

You can spend 10 minutes concentrating on this weapon to 
commune with your deity. Over the next 24 hours you can 
reroll any one dice of your choosing, though you must take 
the second result. After you have used this reroll, you must 
complete a short or long rest before you can commune with 
your deity again to gain this benefit. 


Divine ToucH 
4 Spirit points, clerics, druids, or paladins only 


The first time each turn you deal melee damage with this 
weapon, an ally within 5 foot regains d4 hit points. 


DoomeRANG 

3 Spirit points 

The weapon gains the thrown trait. When used this way it flies 
back to your hand at the end of your turn via the most direct 
route. Any creature in its path must make DC 10 Dexterity 
saving throw, suffering d6 damage of the weapon's type ona 
failed save. 


En Guarp 

3 Spirit points, fighters only 

When you or an ally within 5ft is the target of an attack you can 

see, you can use your reaction for one of the following benefits: 
+ +5 bonus AC to the target for the duration of the attack. 


+ After the attack you may move up to your speed. This 
movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks 


+ Make a melee weapon attack against the attacking creature. 


+ Gain advantage against the attacking creature until the end 
of your next turn. 


You must complete a short or long rest before you can use this 
ability again. 


EYE OF THE STORM 
5 Spirit points, monks only 


You can use an action to restore ki points equal to half your 
monk level, rounded down. You must complete a long rest 
before you can use this ability again. 


Guarb 
4 Spirit points, melee weapon only 


You can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on a 
weapon attack you can see that is targeting an ally within 5ft. 


Hunter’s WATCH 

3 Spirit points, rangers only 

You may use your reaction to make an attack of opportunity 
against a creature moving within 30 feet of you. A creature 
hit by this attack must make a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw, 
in addition to any damage caused. On a failed save, its 
movement is reduced to 0. You must complete a short or long 
rest before you can use this ability again. 


JARRING (LEVEL 2) 

4 Spirit points 

Any enemy that you make a weapon attack against with this 
weapon cannot make attacks of opportunity against you until 
the beginning of your next turn. 


Mosite (LeveL 1) 
3 Spirit points 
Your base movement speed is increased by 5 feet. 


Precise (LEVEL 1) 

2 Spirit points 

You can reroll damage results of 1 from this weapon, you 
must accept the second result. 


PROFICIENT (LEVEL 2) 


4 Spirit points 
You gain proficiency in 2 skills of your choice. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


PIERCING (LEVEL 1) 
3 Spirit points 
You have +2 on attack rolls against enemies with shields. 


POWER OF THE ANCESTORS 
4 Spirit points, sorcerers only 


Once per day when you expend sorcery points, you instead do 
not expend any. 


QuicksHoT 

4 Spirit points, ranged weapon only 

The first time you hit with an attack on your turn, gain 
advantage on your next attack with this weapon until the end 
of your turn. 


RAMPAGING 
3 Spirit points, melee weapon only 


You have advantage on attacks with this weapon if you began 
your turn over 20 foot away from the target. 


RECKLESS 
4 Spirit points 
When you have advantage on attacks made with this 


weapon, you can reroll your damage dice. You must accept 
the second result. 


REVERBERATION 
5 Spirit points, bards only 


When you make an attack with this weapon, you can expend a 
bardic inspiration to instill a tale into your attack. If a creature 
takes damage from this attack it must make a Wisdom saving 
throw against your spell DC. On a failed roll, the creature is 
frightened of, or charmed by you, (your choice) for 1 minute. A 
creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on it on a success. 


Scout 
2 Spirit points 


You have advantage on attacks with this weapon in the first 
round of combat. 


SNIPING 

3 Spirit points, requires a ranged weapon 

When making attacks with this weapon, your target’s cover 
counts as being one degree lower than it is. For example 3⁄4 


cover counts as 2 cover. This has no effect against creatures 
not in cover. 


SPELLHUNTER 

5 Spirit points 

Attacks with this weapon deal an additional 2d6 psychic 
damage versus spellcasters. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS, 


SPRIGHTLY 
2 Spirit points 
You can use your bonus action to gain advantage on your next 


attack roll, if the attack hits you must complete a short or long 
rest before you can use this ability again. 


TELEPATHIC Link 

3 Spirit points 

The weapon gifts you the ability to communicate telepathically 
with any creature you are familiar with within 60 feet, that you 
can see. 


TRANSFORMING 

2 Spirit points 

You can use an action to turn this weapon into a mundane 
version of itself, during this period it cannot be seen by the 
detect magic spell or similar, and loses all abilities. You can 
use an action to speak the weapon’s command word, restoring 
it to its magical form. 


TRANSPOSED 

2 Spirit points 

You can use your bonus action to summon or dismiss this 
weapon to/from a pocket dimension. 


TRAPPED SPELL 
4 Spirit points, warlocks only 


When you complete a long rest you can store one spell you 
know in this weapon. You can as an bonus action release this 
spell from the staff. You do not need to expend a spell slot, and 
you ignore any verbal or somatic components. 


UNDERHANDED 

2 Spirit points 

You can use your reaction to cause a melee attack targeting 
you, or an ally within 5 foot, to be made at disadvantage. If 


this attack misses, you must complete a short or long rest 
before you can use this ability again. 


Vicious (LEVEL 1) 

2 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 20, 
your critical hit deals an extra 2d6 damage of the weapon's 


type. 


WILD SPELL 

3 Spirit points, druids only 

When you use your wild shape feature you can expend a spell 
slot of the relevant level to ready a spell. Once during your 
transformation, you can use an action to cast that spell. 


ag 


WILL OF THE ANCESTORS 

4 Spirit points 

You can use an action to release the wills of your ancestors 
from the blade. “Each enemy within 15 feet must make a 

DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. An enemy takes 2d8 psychic 
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a 
successful one. You must complete a short or long rest before 
you can use this ability again. 


Tier 3: LeveL 10+ UPGRADES 


DueuisT (LEVEL 3) 
6 Spirit points, melee weapons only, limited 


When you are hit by a melee attack you can see, you can use 
your reaction to add 3 to your AC. 


ENHANCED WEAPON (LEVEL 3) 

10 Spirit points, limited 

You have a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this weapon. 


FLYING 
6 Spirit points, limited 
You gain a flying speed equal to your movement speed. 


INFUSION (LEVEL 2) 

10 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose an damage type from 
acid, cold, fire, force, lightning, necrotic, poison, psychic, 
radiant, and thunder. Your weapon attacks from this weapon 
deal an additional 2d6 damage of that type. 


Macicat Core (LEVEL 3) 

6 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any level 1 spell. You 
can use an action to cast this spell from the weapon. You can 
use this ability twice per long rest. The spell attack bonus of 
this spell is +8, and the spell save DC is 16. 


Macus (LEvEL 2) 
8 Spirit points, limited 


Whilst holding this weapon you have a +2 bonus to spell 
attack rolls and a +2 bonus to AC. 


SPELL STORING (LEVEL 4) 

8 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any level 4 spell. You 
can use an action to cast this spell from the weapon. You must 
complete a short or long rest before you can use this ability 
again. The spell attack bonus of this spell is +8, and the spell 
save difficulty is 16. 


STAFF oF ETERNAL DOMINION 
QUARTERSTAFF WITH Macus (LeveL 
2), DANCING, Focuseo, AND 
TELEPATHIC Link 


SPELL Link (LEVEL 3) 
6 Spirit points, spellcasters only, limited 


You gain an additional level 3 spell slot. This spell slot is 
refreshed on a long rest. 


BLINDSIDE (LEVEL 2) 

8 Spirit points, rogues only 

You increase the damage of your sneak attacks made by this 
weapon by 2d6. 


BLOOD-DRINKER (LEVEL 1) 

5 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 or 
20, you gain temporary hit points equal to half the damage 
dealt by this weapon, rounded down. 


Brawn 

3 Spirit points 

You cannot be knocked prone, and have advantage on grapple 
checks. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


CHARGED SMITE (LEVEL 2) 
4 Spirit points, paladins only 


When you deal damage with the divine smite feature, you deal 
an additional 2d8 radiant damage. 


DISTRACTING (LEVEL 2) 

4 Spirit points, ranged weapons only 

You can use an action to make an attack with this weapon, 
before you do so you can move up to half your speed. This 
movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. 


ELEMENTAL MANIPULATION 

5 Spirit points 

When you cast a spell with a spell slot that deals acid, cold, 
fire, force, lightning, necrotic, radiant, or thunder damage, 
you can substitute that damage type with one other type from 
that list (you can change only one damage type per casting of 
a spell). 


ELEMENTAL RESISTANCE 

4 Spirit points 

When you select this upgrade, choose an damage type from, 
fire, cold, lightning, radiant, thunder, necrotic, force, psychic, 
or poison. You gain resistance to damage of this type. 


Focusep 
4 Spirit points 
When you select this upgrade, pick an ability score. A creature 


that suffers damage from this weapon suffers disadvantage on 
saves relating to this ability score until your next turn. 


Harpy 
3 Spirit points 
You can use an action to spend up to half your hit dice, 


recovering that much health. You must complete a long rest 
before you can use this ability again. 


INDOMITABLE (LEVEL 2) 
3 Spirit points 
When you are reduced to 0 hit points, you can immediately 


take the Attack action using this weapon before you fall 
unconscious. 


LasHING 
4 Spirit points 
When you make an opportunity attack you may make an 


additional attack with this weapon, you do not add your ability 
modifier to the damage of this attack. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS. 


NEMESIS 

4 Spirit points 

You can nominate a Nemesis for this weapon by spending 10 
minutes in concentration, thinking of a target creature you 

are familiar with. Attacks from this weapon deal an additional 
2d8 psychic damage against the target. You cannot change the 
Nemesis, or select a new one if the target is dead, until 1 week 
has passed. 


Rapip STRIKE 

4 Spirit points, melee weapon; 6 Spirit points, ranged weapon 
When you make an attack with this weapon you can use your 
bonus action to make an additional attack against a different 
creature within range. You do not add your ability modifier to 
the damage of this attack. 


PROFICIENT (LEVEL 3) 
6 Spirit points 
You gain proficiency in 3 skills of your choice. 


SHIMMERING 

4 Spirit points 

Ranged weapon attacks against you have disadvantage whilst 
you are within 5 feet of another creature. 


SPELLEATER 

3 Spirit points 

After a creature casts a spell whilst within 5 foot, you can 
spend your reaction to make an attack of opportunity against 
that creature. 


SPELLHUNTER 

5 Spirit points 

Concentration checks caused by this weapon are at made at 
disadvantage. 


SUSTAINING 

3 Spirit points 

You do not need to eat, drink, or sleep whilst this weapon is in 
your possession. 


TRACKING 

2 Spirit points 

You can use an action to learn the exact direction of a creature 
who has taken damage from this weapon. This will only work 
against creatures who were damaged in the last week, whilst 
they are within 10 miles. 


WILL (LeveL 1) 

3 Spirit points 

You can re-roll a failed concentration check. You must 
complete a long rest before you can use this ability again. 


TIER 4: LeveL 15+ UPGRADES 


AmpPuIFY (LEVEL 2) 
10 Spirit points, limited 


You gain +2 to an ability score of your choice, to a maximum 
of 20. 


GUARDIAN (LEVEL 2) 

7 Spirit points, limited 

You gain proficiency on a saving throw of your choice. If you 
can see the source of the effect, you also gain advantage on 
these saving throws. 


Macica Core (LeveL 4) 

8 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose any level 1 spell. You 
can use an action to cast this spell from the weapon. You can 
use this ability at will. The spell attack bonus of this spell is 
+8, and the spell save DC is 16. 


Saver (LEVEL 2) 

10 Spirit points, limited 

When you select this upgrade, choose an enemy type from, 
beasts, fey, humanoids, monstrosities, or undead. Your 


weapon attacks from this weapon deal 4d6 additional damage 


to all creatures of this type. 


SPELL STORING (LEVEL 4) 
10 Spirit points, limited 
When you select this upgrade, choose any level 5 spell. You 


can use an action to cast this spell from the weapon. You must 


complete a long rest before you can use this ability again. 
The spell attack bonus of this spell is +8, and the spell save 
difficulty is 16. 


SPELL LINK (LEVEL 4) 
8 Spirit points, spellcasters only, limited 


You gain an additional level 4 spell slot. This spell slot is 
refreshed on a long rest. 


TRUESIGHT 
10 Spirit points, limited 
You have truesight when holding this weapon. 


BEACON 

5 Spirit points 

You can use an action to plant this weapon in the ground. 

For the next 1 minute, whilst your weapon remains planted, 
the weapon glows with a divine light, shining bright light in a 
30-foot radius, and dim light for an additional 30-foot. All allies 
within 15 feet gain a +1 bonus to their AC, and their attacks 
deal d6 additional force damage. Any ally that can draw line of 
sight to the weapon can take a bonus action to move up to half 
their movement towards the weapon. This movement doesn't 
provoke opportunity attacks. You must complete a short or 
long rest before you can use this ability again. 


BLOOD-DRINKER (LEVEL 2) 

7 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 or 
20, you temporary hit points equal to the damage dealt. 


DANCING 
5 Spirit points, melee weapon only 
You use an action to speak the command word allowing this 
weapon to attack independently for 1 minute. For this duration, 
the weapon floats in the air and fights independently of you. 
You may use a bonus action to move the weapon up to 20 
feet and make a melee attack as though you were holding it, 
and you may use your reaction to allow the weapon to make 
an opportunity attack from the weapon's location, following 
the normal attack of opportunity rules. You must complete a 
short or long rest before you can use this ability again. 


HomiNG 

5 Spirit points, ranged weapons only 

You may attack creatures within range even if you cannot 
draw line of sight. These attacks are made at disadvantage. 
Any creature targeted this way counts as being in 34 cover. 


THe Enotimes 
CLUB WITH ENHANCED WEAPON 
(Lever 3), AmpurFy (Lever 2 
Carisma), BULLY, AND Power 
Surce. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


KEEN (LEVEL 2) 

10 Spirit points, limited 

The weapon causes a critical hit when the d20 roll for an 
attack made with this weapon is a 18, 19 or 20. 


MENTOR 
3 Spirit points, spellcasters only 


You can cast any spell you know, even one that is not 
prepared, by expending a spell slot of the highest level 
available to you. You must complete a long rest before you can 
use this ability again. 


MosıLe (LEVEL 2) 
7 Spirit points 
Youe base movement speed is increased by 10 feet. 


PIERCING (LEVEL 2) 
5 Spirit points 
You have +4 on attack rolls against enemies with shields. 


Power SURGE 

5 Spirit points 

Once per day you can use a spell slot to cast a spell you know 
of up to 2 levels higher than that of the spell slot. 


PRECISE (LEVEL 2) 

6 Spirit points 

You can reroll damage results from this weapon, you must 
accept the second result. 


PROFICIENT (LEVEL 4) 
4 Spirit points 
You gain proficiency in 4 skills of your choice. 


PROTECTIVE 

3 Spirit points 

You can make a saving throw at advantage, you must complete 
a short or long rest before you can use this ability again. 


RALLYING 

4 Spirit points 

You can use an action to raise this weapon in the air and let 

out a war cry bolstering your allies. For the next minute your 
weapon lets of a shining radiance, all allies within 30 feet gain 
advantage on Wisdom saving throws and are immune to the 
frightened condition. Any ally moving directly towards you 
during this time can increase their movement speed by 10 feet. 
You must complete a short or long rest before you can use this 
ability again. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS. 


SPECTRAL REACH 

5 Spirit points 

Increase the range of this weapon by 5 feet for 1 minute. For 
the duration, the weapon inflicts an additional d4 damage. 
You must complete a short or long rest before you can use this 
ability again. 


VENOMOUS 

7 Spirit points 

Each creature damaged by this weapon must succeed on 

a DC15 Constitution save or suffer 2d6 poison damage at 
the start of their round for 1 minute. If the creatures saving 
throw is successful they are immune to this effect for the 
next 24 hours. 


Vicious (LEVEL 2) 

4 Spirit points 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 20, 
your critical hit deals an extra 4d6 damage of the weapon's 


type. 


WILL (LEVEL 2) 
5 Spirit points, spellcasters only 


When you fail a concentration check, you can choose to pass 
instead. You must complete a long rest before you can use this 
ability again. 


WHIRLWIND 

5 Spirit points 

You can use your action to perform a melee attack against 
each creature within 5 feet. 


Tre Raven DAGGER 
DAGGER WITH FLYING, SPELL 
STORING (LeveL 1 - Fino 
Famiviar), Buinosioe (LeveL 2), 
Ano Precise (LeveL 2) 


, ANY ANCESTRAL WEAPONS HAVE SMALL, SUBTLE that a character will sense when performing certain actions 


Ns effects that add character to them. An ancestral that align with, or against, the ancestral personality. 
iit weapon can start with these, or unlock them A weapon can have either of the properties presented, 
P= more of their gifts are earnt. There are two one of each property, or neither property. A DM, or a player 
types of properties represented in this chapter. working with their DM, can also create a history fitting to the 
Ancestral Traits are small characteristics built weapon and the Ancestral Traits can be supplemented by the 
up over the life of the weapon, whilst Ancestral Personalities Minor Property table on page 142 of the Dungeon Master's 
reveal the domimant personalities amongst the fragments of Guide. 
the ancestoral spirits that are held within the weapon. To determine an Ancestral Trait or Ancestral Personality, 
Ancestral Traits often come with minor gameplay effects, roll on the tables presented below. 


whilst Ancestral Personalities manifest themselves in feelings 


Ancestral Traits 


d20 
1 


Name 

Guided by the past 
Moral Guidance 
Read Script 

Learn From Failure 


Soldier's Saviour 


Bolstering Growth 
Totemic 

History of the Spirits 
Forewarning 


Battlebred 


Details 


The ancestors will occasionally speak to the bearer, imparting their wisdom. When making 
an ability check the player can ask the ancestors for aid. The player gains an additional d4 to 
add to the skill check but must complete a short or long rest before using this ability again. 


If the player takes an action that is not within their alignment, they suffer d4 psychic 
damage, at the DMs discretion, as the ancestors are angered. 


The player or DM selects a language which relates to the history of this weapon. The bearer 
can read this language, but cannot speak or comprehend it verbally. 


When you roll on 1 on the d20 to make a weapon attack with this weapon, your next weapon 
attack is made at advantage. 


You always know the direction of the closest source of alcohol. 


You can use an action to grow 1 foot in height for one hour, you have advantage on 
Charisma (Intimidation) checks against creatures smaller than you during this time. 


The weapon is often recognised as being a true example of its craft, and will be appreciated 
and fawned over. 


Occasionally the spirits of the ancestors within this weapon will communicate with the 
bearer, regaling a story from the weapons history. 


On occasion, the spirits from the weapon will communicate with the bearer in their sleep or 
meditation, gifting them a cryptic omen of future events. 


The weapon will glow a sinister red color around areas that have experienced bloodshed in 
the last week. 


~\ 


d20 Name Details 


R 


Longing When left alone, after an hour the weapon will emit a low hum until it is reunited with its 
owner. 


14 Wilderness The weapon guides the bearer carefully through the land. You leave no footprints. 


16 Entertainer The ancestors thrive in revelling after a success. You have advantage on Charisma 
(Performance) checks when the crowd is intoxicated. 


18 Bravado The weapon wants to be heard. If knocked against an inanimate object it will let out a 
booming noise that can be heard 300 feet away. 


20 Homing You can use an action to mark your current location. For the next 24 hours the weapon will 
always be able to guide you back to that location. 


dio Name Details 


n 
= 
o 
2 

at 


When you are presented with the options, the weapon will try to subtlely push you in the 
direction that would see more bloodshed. 


4 Serene When you are in a calm situation you will feel especially content. 


6 Vengeful Once crossed, the weapon will not forget and will encourage you in situations where you 
can realise your revenge. 


8 Bashful You find the weapon warming slightly, filling you with a feeling of joy, whenever something 
embarrassing happens to anyone in sight. 


10 Thoughtful The weapon will encourage you to think of a creative solution, filling you with pride when 
these come to fruition. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


®) it is extremely simple to create non-ancestral 
4) magic weapons using this system. This can 

J either be done by the DM to create new 
weapons for the campaign, or allow players 

to craft magic weapons through the course of 
the campaign. This allows you access to the flexibility of the 
ancestral weapons rules whilst still creating fun, and balanced 
magic weapons. 


Quick-BuiLb Macic WEAPONS 


To create a magic item, firstly select a number of spirit 
points to create the item. It is advised that this is determined 
based on the level of the party. The average level of the party 
will give you an appropriate amount of spirit points to create 
a suitable magical weapon. 

In some circumstances you may wish to give the party a 
stronger or weaker weapon in the course of your campaigns. 
For a more powerful item, add up to 3 spirit points to the 
groups average level, and for a less powerful weapon, 
subtract up to 3 spirit points. 

Any item that is very rare or legendary, or that has a 
limited upgrade, requires attunement. 

If you wish to make some of these items available for 
puchase in stores, or black markets, the table below also 
shows the recommended purchase cost. 


Spirit Points Rarity Purchase Cost per Spirit Point 
1-4 Uncommon 200 gp 
5-9 Rare 500 gp 
10-15 Very Rare 5000 gp 
16-25 Legendary 20,000 gp 


EXAMPLE Quick-BuiLb ITEMS 


Voicanic BLADE 

Weapon (longsword), rare, requires attunement 

This blade was crafted in the Dragon’s Eye, forged from 
obsidian, deep inside the volcano itself. 

Your weapon attacks from this weapon deal an additional 
d4 fire damage. 

You can use an action to cast burning hands. You must 
complete a long rest before you can use this ability again. 
The spell attack bonus of this spell is +4, and the spell save 
difficulty is 12. 

In addition you can reroll damage results of 1 from this 
weapon, you must accept the second result. 


Upgrades, 9 spirit points: Infusion (level 1) - 5 spirit points, 
Spell Storing (level 1) - 2 spirit points, and Precise (level 1) - 2 
spirit points. 

Purchase Cost: 4,500 gp 


ALLIANCE 

Weapon (quarterstaff), uncommon 

This long staff is topped with a bronze mask, on one side a 
smiling visage, and the other a menacing face. 

You have advantage on saving throws against the 
charmed condition, and you are proficient in the Charisma 
(Persuasion) skill. 

You can add 1d4 to a skill check, you may use this 
ability after rolling the check, but before you know if it was 
successful. You must declare you are using this feature 
before you make the roll, and must perform a long rest 
before using this feature again. 


Upgrades, 3 spirit points: Charmward - 1 spirit point, 


Proficient (level 1) - 1 spirit point, and willing - 1 spirit point. 
Purchase Cost: 600 gp 


A Nu 


CRAFTING MAGIC ITEMS 


You can use spirit points to allow characters to craft magic 
weapons. These magical weapons do not earn spirit points 
after being created, and require no special attunement rules 
beyond those of the standard attunement rules found in the 
Player's Handbook. Any item that is very rare or legendary, or 
that has a limited upgrade, requires attunement. 

To craft a magic item, the player must pay a cost, as well 
as spend a period of time, both shown in the below table, 
in order to craft the item. The cost covers both magical and 
mundane materials. In order to embed a spell into a weapon, 
the player needs access to a spellcaster who has has the 
ability to cast that spell, and who must spend a number of 
days with the weapon equal to 1 + the spell level. 


Min Rarity Number Cost per Time per 
Level of Spirit Spirit Spirit Point 
Points Point 


5+ Rare 500 gp 3 days 


1 week 


16+ Legendary 


16-25 20,000 gp 
To create such items a Dungeon Master may deem that a character 
needs to be proficient with Smith’s tools, Woodcarver'’s tools or 
similar. 


EXAMPLE CRAFTED ITEMS 


Dirk OF THE Twin Fancs 
Weapon (dagger), legendary, requires attunement 


Deep in the Underdark, in Menzoberranzan, the drow elf 
Ulkina Eldraor disappeared one day. She returned with a 
dagger of fine craftmanship, with snake venom coursing 
through the blade itself. No-one knows what price she paid 
for such an item of nightmares. 

You have a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this magic weapon, and any enemy that you make a weapon 
attack against with this weapon cannot make attacks of 
opportunity against you until the beginning of your next turn. 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 
or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon to make a DC14 Constitution saving throw, in addition 
to any damage caused. On a failed save, it gains the poisoned 
condition. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a success. 

A creature damaged by this weapon must make a DC15 
Constitution save at the start of each of their turns for 1 
minute. On a fail they suffer 2d6 poison damage, and if they 
pass this effect ends. A creature can only be affected by this 
effect once per day. 


Upgrades, 23 spirit points: Enhanced Weapon (level 3) - 

10 spirit points, Overpower (Poisonous) - 2 spirit points, 
Venomous -7 spirit points, and Jarring (level 2) - 4 spirit points. 
Cost to craft: 460,000 gp 

Time to craft: 23 weeks 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS. 


e â ce =a ųēÝ | A Ue oo 
Unique Reagents 
Crafting a magical weapon should never be an easy 
endeavor. Oftentimes it is a great opportunity for a 
player driven quest. 
By requiring a unique reagent, such as the claw of a red 
dragon or a medusa's eye, the characters will drive the 
campaign forward allowing for additional motivations to 
add to determine their characters actions. 


D E o 


THE SUNSTAFF 

Weapon (quarterstaff), very rare, requires attunement 
Glowing proudly with a golden light, this weapon was crafted 
by the smiths of the sun worshipping Iliathoran tribe. It is now 
wielded by the ruling high priestess. 

Whilst holding this weapon you have a +1 bonus to spell 
attack rolls and a +1 bonus to AC. You gain advantage on 
intimidation checks when the target can see you and you are 
holding this weapon. 

The weapon sheds bright golden light in a 15-foot radius, 
and dimlight for an additional 15-foot. 

You can use an action to cast daylight from the weapon. You 
must complete a long rest before you can use this ability 
again. 


Upgrades, 12 spirit points: Magus (level 1) - 5 spirit points, 
Spell Storing (level 3 - daylight) - 6 spirit points, Bully - 1 spirit 
point, and Guiding - 1 spirit point 

Cost to craft: 60,000 gp 

Time to craft: 48 days 


Gitzia’s Pokey STABBA 

Weapon (shortsword), rare, requires attunement by a rogue 
Gitzla’s emporium of rare and unknown curiosities in 

the Undermountain often attracts light fingers. Gitzla 
commissioned his pokey stabba to ensure his goods don't 
wander without his knowledge. 

You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this magic weapon, and you increase the damage of 
your sneak attacks made by this weapon by d6. 

You have advantage on initiative rolls. 


Upgrades, 8 spirit points: Enhanced Weapon (level 1) - 3 
spirit points, Blindside (level 1) - 4 spirit points, and Quick - 1 
spirit point. 

Cost to craft: 4,000 gp 

Time to craft: 24 days 


VERY ANCESTRAL WEAPON HOLDS A UNIQUE STORY. Wielder's Race Number of Generations 
These weapons have been used in great HalfOrc d6 
battles, fought monstrous creatures, and been 


the envy of kings. You can create the history Human d6 
for your weapon, or you can instead roll on the Tiefling di2 
tables provided below to randomly create a Agrakocra d6 
background for the weapon. 
r Aasamir di2 

In order to create a background for this weapon, roll on 
the below tables, or choose from the options presented. The Bugbear d6 
rules and tables presented here are shown only as a guideline Feral Tiefling d4 
for you to pick and choose from as you wish. Feel free to add, i 

5 É Firbolg d8 
embellish, or alter to make the weapon as unique as your 
character. Genasi dio 
Gith di2 
HISTORY OF THE WEAPON 5 
Goblin d4 
This section details the age of the weapon, measured in Goliath de 
generations. Ancestral weapons exist of many ages, from 
being handed down a single generation, to being older than Hobgoblin d6 
many races. Kenku d4 

First you should determine how many generations the Kobold d4 
weapon has been in existence, followed by how many feats of a 

7 A Lizardfolk d6 
legend the weapon has been involved in. 

These feats of legend reveal some of the story into how Orc d6 
the weapon became so powerful. It may have been involved Tabaxi d6 
in the Blood Wars, could have delivered the final blow to a 

= Tortle di2 
tyrannical dragon, or have been blessed by a god. 
Triton dé 
Generations Since Created Yuan-ti Pureblood d8 
Wielder's Race Number of Generations 
Number of Feats of Legend 
Dragonborn d8 
Number of Generations Number of Feats of Legend 
Dwarf dio 
Elf dio : m 
Gnome d6 au Sz 
-8 d6 
Halfling d6 5 5 
~ 8 
Half-Elf d8 Ra 


A N 


Types of Feat of Legend 


d20 


NOU A w 


Feat of Legend 

A previous owner defeated a dragon. 

The weapon itself was blessed by a god. 

Was wielded in battle against a demigod. 

The might of this weapon brought a city to ruin. 
A previous owner led an army with this weapon. 
The weapon turned the tide of a battle. 


A ruler offered their lands in exchange for this 
weapon. 


Was used to destroy a lich. 

Has been to Sigil, and returned. 

Was wielded in battle in Avernus. 

Was gifted by a fey being. 

Was once in the possession of an angel. 
Was once in the possession of a devil. 
Was used in the rescue of an enslaved race. 
Has been lost, and found. 

Was broken and reforged. 

Was part of a ritual to banish a demon. 
Was wielded in far distant lands. 

A ruler was slain with this weapon. 


A previous wielder gave up their love, in return 
for this weapon. 


PHYSICAL PROPERTIES 


As well as a powerful and rich history, ancestral weapons 
are often distinguished in craftsmanship compared to 
other weapons of their type. The tables below allow you to 


determine the material of the weapon, which race crafted it, 


as well as an identifying feature that allows the weapon to 
stand out amongst others of its type. 


Craftmanship 


dio 


E d 


Craftmanship 
Human 
Dwarven 
Elven 
Astral 
Fell 
Elemental 
Gnomish 
Fey 
Other worldly 


Unknown 


ae 
Ancestral weapons from beyond the Realm 
While the races listed here are those encountered within 
the Forgotten Realms, ancestral weapons can be found 
in the hands of many races throughout the multiverse. If 
you are using a race from a different setting, it's a good 
idea to compare the lifespan of that race with some of 
those in this table to figure out how old your weapon 


might be. 


oe 


Type of Wood Used 
dio Wood 
1 Ash 
2 Birch 
3 Duskwood 
4 Felsul 
5 Maple 
6 Oak 
7 Phandar 
8 Willow 
Type of Metal Used 
dio Metal 
Brass 
2 Bronze 
3 Electrum 
4 Iron 
5 Mithril 
6 Obsidian 
7 Platinum 
8 Steel 
Identifying Feature 
dio Feature 
1 Is slightly larger than other weapons of its 
type. 
2 Is slightly smaller than other weapons of its 
type. 
3 Has elegant embellishment featuring one of 
its feats of legend. 
4 Engraved in the body is the origin story of 
your race. 
5 The weapon appears crudely made until held. 
6 The weapon appears exceptionally well 
crafted. 
7 A vein of rare stone runs through the weapon. 
8 The initials of each bearer are carved into the 
weapon. 
9 The colour of the weapon is different than as 
to be expected from the material. 
10 The weapon appears to leave a small trail 


behind it as it moves. 


CHAPTER 6: EXAMPLE ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


N THIS CHAPTER YOU WILL FIND FOUR ANCESTRAL 
items that have each been created by one of our 


For each weapon you will find a history of the 
) weapon, who currently wields the weapon, as 
= well as 4 seperate iterations of the weapon. 
These show how the weapon grew during the campaign and 
will feature one uncommon version, one rare, one very rare, 
and one legendary version. 

The four weapons you will find in this section are 
summarised below, along with a short bio of the writer, and 
the character who currently wields it. 


GriFFon’s REST 


Created by Rob Tew, a sonographer by day and D&D terrain 
enthusiast by night. 

Griffon’s Rest is wielded by Nathaniel Garrow, having 
being handed to him by his father on this deathbed. 

Garrow is a lawful good paladin of Helm, and has saved 
Secomber and beyond with his limitless smites. He is well 
known for his ability to destroy doors, and his inability to 
recognise his wife. 


KESHYKIIN ILMAA 


Created by James “Hobbit” Braund, an enthusiastic DM and 
roleplayer who also would prefer to live in Middle-Earth than 
real life. 

Keshykiin Ilmaa is wielded by Kalesh Qyzarraphor, 
dragonborn barbarian from the desert lands in northern 
Amalin, a member of a nomadic tribe of dragonborn - both 
natives and refugees from conflicts across Faerûn. 

Kalesh is a neutral good ancestral guardian barbarian, 
and part of the Adventurer’s Guild of Holmsgarth, though 
ashamedly he was once in the competing guild - the 
(Dis)Honourable Guild of Defenders. Replete with 


playtesters for use in their individual campaigns. 


impressive pauldrons crafted from the skull of a wyvern, 
Kalesh is a proud and honourable warrior who will defend 
the weak and cut short the life of those who stand before 
him. Not great with subtlety though. 


STAFF OF THE HoMING TREE 


Created by Laura-Jade Klee, a new D&D player, who focuses 
on a dramatic characters, and enthusiastic roleplaying. 

The Staff of the Homing Tree is wielded by Nala Mystan, 
being the only remaining object passed to her following the 
death of her parents. After their death Nala was rescued by 
the circus where this staff became an integral part of her 
acrobatic performances. 

Nala is a chaotic neutral dragonborn monk, who after 
leaving the circus signed up to the Adventurer’s Guild of 
Holmsgarth. An impressive dragonborn, her menacing bite is 
equalled only by her terrifying roar. 


THE WINDBLADE 

Created by Matthew Kelly, an absolute chocaholic who loves 
all things geek. If not wargaming, or walking the dog, you will 
find him at a D&D table, whether as DM or player. 

The Windblade is wielded by Rynn Winter, having been 
handed down through each generation of the Winter family, 
containing the very essence of the tempest ravaging the lands 
when it was forged. 

Rynn is a lawful good wizard whose willpower and 
headstrong attitude led her to face off against a necromancer 
on her own. Her heart was always in the right place but she 
tends to never say the right thing. 


GRIFFON’S REST 


By Rob Tew. Wielded by Nathaniel Garrow in “Secomber Chronicles” campaign 


“ Forged by the esteemed blacksmiths of Secomber, this blade was gifted to the knight Edwin Garrow a 

~ renown in the battle of Griffon's Rest. In this battle against all odds, he led a small garrison of troops to victory 
gainst a larger invading force. 

= Named after the outpost where they made their last stand, this hand and a half blade features an intricately 

“carved Griffon's head set into the pommel. The blade itself however, is unassuming, built for practicality over 2 


į presentation. Edwin and his blade were later famed for single handily holding off an ambush on the lord’s caravan # 
` so that the lord and his family could escape. Thought to be dead, Edwin returned to the caravan later that day with 
awounded soldier that was left behind. a, 
é Upon his deathbed Edwin passed the sword on to his son, Nathaniel Garrow, who wields the blade to this day, t S] 
` defending the innocent in search of his missing family. Garrow and his father’s blade have become renowned for 


i 


their use of Thunderous Smite, bringing down their foes with an almighty bolt of energy just in the nick of time, = 
wing him and his companions on several occasions. The Griffon's Rest blade is a symbol of hope and protection a 
gainst even the most insurmountable odds. = z = 
pele AN caine eS | aaa Se iw = 
GriFFon’s REST GriFFon’s REST 
Weapon (longsword), uncommon, requires attunement Weapon (longsword), very rare, requires attunement 
This hand and a half blade features an intricately carved A symbol of valour, honour, and truth. This blade features an 


onyx studded griffon's head, and brings vigour to those who 
see it wielded in battle. 

You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 
with this weapon. with this magic weapon, and when you deal damage with a 
smite spell, you deal an additional d6 radiant damage. 
ks age You can use an action cast thunderous smite from the 
Upgrades, S)spirit points: Enhanced Weapon (level 1) - 3 weapon. You must complete a long rest before you can use 
spirit points. this ability again. The spell attack bonus of this spell is +4, 
and the spell save difficulty is 12. 


griffons head set into the pommel. 


GriFron’s REST 


Weapon (longsword), rare, requires attunement Upgrades, 12 spirit points: Enhanced Weapon (level 2) - 6 
spirit points, Spell Storing (level 1 - thunderous smite) - 2 


Atop this hand and a half blade sits an ornately carved marble spirit points, and Charged Smite (leve 2 I A e E a 


griffon’s head, each eye studded with an onyx. 
You have a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made 


with this magic weapon, and when you deal damage with a GrirFon’s REST 


smite spell, you deal an additional d6 radiant damage. Weapon (longsword), legendary, requires attunement 
You can use an action cast thunderous smite from the This ornate blade is topped with an ornate marble griffon. 
weapon. You must complete a long rest before you can use When held aloft, griffon’s rest beams a golden radiance, 


bolstering those who see it. 

You have a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with 
this magic weapon, and when you deal damage with a smite 
re s spell, you deal an additional d6 radiant damage. 
eee ee epii points enhanced Weapon (evel 1) -3 You can use an action cast thunderous smite from the 
spirit points, Spell Storing (level 1 - thunderous smite) - 2 weapon. You must complete a long rest before you can use this 
spirit points, and Charged Smite (level 1) - 2 spirit points. ability again. The spell attack bonus of this spell is +4, and the 
spell save difficulty is 12. 

You can use an action to raise this weapon in the air and 
let out a war cry bolstering your allies. For the next minute 
your weapon lets of a shining radiance, all allies within 30 foot 
gain advantage on wisdom saving throws and are immune to 
the frightened condition. Any ally moving directly towards you 
during this time can increase their movement speed by 10 foot. 
You must complete a short or long rest before you can use this 
feature again. 


this ability again. The spell attack bonus of this spell is +4, 
and the spell save difficulty is 12. 


Upgrades, 20 spirit points: Enhanced Weapon (level 3) - 10 
spirit points, Spell Storing (level 1 - thunderous smite) - 2 
spirit points, Charged Smite (level 2) - 4 spirit points, and 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS Rallying Soy spitt pout 


KESHYKIIN ILMAA 


By James Braund. Wielded by Kalesh Qyzarraphor in “The Adventurer’s Guild” campaign 


KESHYKIIN ILMAA 
Weapon (glaive), uncommon, requires attunement. 
An ornate glaive, inscribed with Draconic runes. 

When you are hit by a melee attack you can see, you can 
use your reaction to add 1 to your AC. When you are reduced 
to 0 hit points, you can immediately make an attack with this 
weapon before you fall unconscious. 


Upgrades, 3 spirit points: Duelist (level 1) - 2 spirit points, 
and Indomitable (level 1) - 1 spirit point. 


KESHYKIIN ILMAA 
Weapon (glaive), rare, requires attunement. 
The runes on this ornate glaive glow with an ice-blue aura. 
When you are hit by a melee attack you can see, you can 
use your reaction to add 1 to your AC. When you are reduced 
to 0 hit points, you can immediately make an attack with this 
weapon before you fall unconscious. 
You have proficiency in Dexterity saving throws. 


Upgrades, 7 spirit points: Duelist (level 1) - 2 spirit points, 
Guardian (level 1)- 4 spirit points, Indomitable - 1 spirit point. 


KESHYKIIN ILMAA 

Weapon (glaive), very rare, requires attunement. 

Finely crafted, and gleaming in the sunlight, this glaive's 
power radiates out from the Draconic runes glowing with an 
icy blue aura. 

You have proficiency in Dexterity saving throws. When 
you are hit by a melee attack you can see, you can use your 
reaction to add 2 to your AC. When you are reduced to 0 hit 
points, you can immediately make an attack with this weapon 
before you fall unconscious. 

You can reroll your damage dice for attacks made with 
this weapon, you must take the second result. 


Upgrades, 13 spirit points: Duelist (level 2) - 4 spirit points, 
Guardian (level 1) - 4 spirit points, Indomitable - 1 spirit point, 
and Reckless - 4 spirit points. 


KESHYKIIN ILMAA 

Weapon (glaive), legendary, requires attunement. 

The finely crafted blade of this ancient glaive appears to 
leave a ice-blue trail behind it as it cuts through the air. When 
held you can see the spirits of the ancestors within the finely 
carved draconic runes. 

You can reroll your damage dice for attacks made with 
this weapon, you must take the second result. 

You have proficiency in Dexterity saving throws. If you 
can see the source of the effect, you also gain advantage on 
these saving throws. 

When you are hit by a melee attack you can see, you can 
use your reaction to add 3 to your AC. 

You can use an action to spend up to half your hit dice, 
recovering that much health. You must complete a long rest 
before you can use this ability again. 

Increase the range of this weapon by 5 feet for 1 minute. 
For the duration, the weapon inflicts an additional d4 damage. 
You cannot use this special ability again until after you have 
completed a short or long rest. 


Upgrades, 25 spirit points: Duelist (level 3) - 6 spirit points, 


Guardian (level 2) - 7 spirit points, Hardy - 3 spirit points, 
Reckless - 4 spirit points, and Spectral Reach - 5 spirit points. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


Fk = anon a aoa § 


STAFF OF THE HOMING TREE 


By Laura-Jade Klée. Wielded by Nala Mystan in “The Adventurer’s Guild” campaign 


STAFF OF THE HoMING TREE 
Weapon (quarterstaff), uncommon, requires attunement 
A carved branch from the homing tree, singed at each end. 

You can use an action to cast charm person spell from the 
weapon. You must complete a long rest before you can use 
this ability again. The spell save DC is 12. 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 
or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, in addition 
to any damage caused. On a failed save, it is frightened of you 
for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a success. 


Upgrades, 4 spirit points: Spell Storing (Level 1 - Charm 
Person) - 2 spirit points, and Overpower (Dread) - 2 spirit 
points. 


STAFF OF THE HoMING TREE 

Weapon (quarterstaff), rare, requires attunement 
Carved from a burnt branch of the Homing Tree, this 
quarterstaff smoulders as it whips through the air. 

Your weapon attacks from this weapon deal an additional 
d6 necrotic damage. You can use an action to cast charm 
person spell from the weapon. You must complete a long rest 
before you can use this ability again. The spell save DC is 12. 

Tf the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 
or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, in addition 
to any damage caused. On a failed save, it is frightened of you 
for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a success. 


Upgrades, 9 spirit points: Infusion (level 1 - necrotic) - 5 
spirit points, Spell Storing (Level 1 - Charm Person) - 2 spirit 
points, and Overpower (Dread) - 2 spirit points. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS. 


STAFF OF THE HoMING TREE 

Weapon (quarterstaff), very rare, requires attunement 
This ancient quarterstaff smoulders constantly, a burning 
glow radiates from the heart of the staff. 

Your weapon attacks from this weapon deal an additional 
d6 necrotic damage. You can use an action to cast confusion 
spell from the weapon. You must complete a long rest before 
you can use this ability again. The spell save DC is 16. 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 
or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, in addition 
to any damage caused. On a failed save, it is frightened of you 
for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a success. 


Upgrades, 15 spirit points: Infusion (level 1 - necrotic) - 5 
spirit points, Spell Storing (Level 4 - Confusion) - 8 spirit 
points, and Overpower (Dread) - 2 spirit points. 


STAFF OF THE HoMING TREE 

Weapon (quarterstaff), legendary, requires attunement 
Carved from a burnt branch of the Homing Tree, this ancient 
quarterstaff in inset with glowing embers, constantly burning. 

Your weapon attacks from this weapon deal an additional 
2d6 necrotic damage. You can use an action to cast confusion 
spell from the weapon. You must complete a long rest before 
you can use this ability again. The spell save DC is 16. 

If the d20 roll for an attack made with this weapon is a 19 
or 20, you can force a creature that suffers damage from this 
weapon must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, in addition 
to any damage caused. On a failed save, it is frightened of you 
for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a success. 


Upgrades, 24 spirit points: Infusion (level 2 - necrotic) - 10 
spirit points, Spell Storing (Level 3 - Confusion) - 8 spirit 
points, Overpower (Dread) - 2 spirit points, and Shimmering 
(4 spirit points). 


THE WINDBLADE 


By Matthew Kelly. Wielded by Rynn Winter in ‘Ankh Arabell” campaign 


FORGED AT THE HEIGHT OF A MIGHTY STORM, THE WINDBLADE CONTAINS THE POWER OF THE TEMPEST ITSELF. THE GREAT 
MAGE CRAFTERS OF THE WINTER FAMILY CREATED THE BLADE FROM AN UNHOLY UNION OF OTHERWORLOLY MAGIC, AND IT HAS 
BEEN IN THEIR FAMILY FOR SEVERAL GENERATIONS. WIZARDS OF RENOWN, THE ELDEST WINTER HAS ALWAYS TRAVELLED WITH 
THIS BLADE SEEKING TO AID THOSE LESS FORTUNATE. 

THE RAW MAGICAL ESSENCE CONTAINED INSIDE SERVES AS A GROUNDING FOR A MAGE'S ABILITIES, ALLOWING A CALM MINO 
IN EVEN THE MOST STRESSFUL OF SITUATIONS. IT CAN ABSORB AND RELEASE THE VERY LIGHTNING IT WAS FORGED WITH. IT Is 
EVEN RUMOURED THAT SHOULD ONE CONCENTRATE HARD ENOUGH, THEY ARE ABLE TO SEE THE FLOW OF THE WIND ITSELF, 
ALLOWING THEM TO SEE THINGS THAT OTHERS CANNOT. 

CURRENTLY WIELDED BY RYNN, THE ELDEST DAUGHTER IN THE LATEST GENERATION OF WINTERS, IT WAS USED BY HER 
GRANDFATHER TO STOP THE ADVANCES OF A POWERFUL BLUE DRAGON WHO HAD BEEN BESIEGING THE GREAT DESERT CITY OF 
ANKH ARABELL. STOOD ATOP THE RAMPARTS OF ITS MAIN GATE, ULRIC RAISED HIS BLADE HIGH AS THE DRAGON ASSAULTED 
WITH ITS LIGHTNING BREATH. THE WINOBLADE ABSORBED THE DAMAGE AND ALLOWED ULRIC TIME TO CAST HIS POWERFUL 
INCANTATION, SUNDERING THE DRAGON'S MIGHTY HIDE. ITs BONES NOW LAY AS A MONUMENT TO THE POWER OF THE WEAPON. 

STEWART WINTER, SEVERAL GENERATIONS BEFORE, WAS ABLE TO HUNT AND KILL SEVERAL TRICKSTER DEMONS ON THE 
BORDERS THANKS TO THE BLADE ALLOWING HIM TO SEE THROUGH THEIR DISGUISES. HIS SON, ANDER, WAS ABLE TO BATTLE AN 
ORC HORDE, CALMLY CASTING SPELLS AT THREATS WHILST THE BATTLE AROUND HIM RAGED. SLAYING THEIR LEADERS CAUSED 


THE ORCS TO ROUT AND PREVENTED COUNTLESS DEATHS IN A MEATGRINDER BATTLE. 


THE WINDBLADE 
Weapon (shortsword), uncommon, requires attunement. 
This shortsword bears a slight curved edge and has a handle 
long enough to be wielded in two hands. 

This weapon counts as a spellcasting focus. Being within 


5 feet of a hostile creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on 
your ranged attack rolls. 


Upgrades, 3 spirit points: Focus - 2 spirit points, and 
Unflinching - 1 spirit point. 


THE WINDBLADE 
Weapon (shortsword), rare, requires attunement. 


With several runes etched across the surface of the blade 
that symbolise air in Sylvan, Celestial, and Abyssal, this 
shortsword bears a slight curved edge. 

This weapon counts as a spellcasting focus. Being within 
5 feet of a hostile creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on 
your ranged attack rolls. 


You may cast lightning bolt as an action from this weapon. 


The spell save DC is 14. You must take a long rest before you 
can use this ability again. 


Upgrades, 9 spirit points: Spell Storing (Level 3 - lightning 
bolt) - 6 spirit points, Focus - 2 spirit points, and Unflinching - 
1 spirit point. 


THE WINDBLADE 

Weapon (shortsword), very rare, requires attunement. 
The runes along the surface of this blade crackle with the 
energy of the storm trapped inside. 

This weapon counts as a spellcasting focus. Being within 
5 feet of a hostile creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on 
your ranged attack rolls. 

You may cast lightning bolt as an action from this weapon. 
The spell save DC is 14. You must take a long rest before you 
can use this ability again. 

You have resistance to lightning damage. 


Upgrades, 13 spirit points: Spell Storing (Level 3 - lightning 
bolt) - 6 spirit points, Elemental Resistance (lightning) - 4 
spirit points, Focus - 2 spirit points, and Unflinching - 1 spirit 
point. 


THE WINDBLADE 

Weapon (shortsword), legendary, requires attunement. 

The runes etched across the surface of this blade symbolise 
air in Sylvan, Celestial, and Abyssal. Each rune crackles with 
the force of the infused tempest. This blade seems to slice 
through the very air itself when it is wielded. 

This weapon counts as a spellcasting focus. Being within 
5 feet of a hostile creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on 
your ranged attack rolls. 

You may cast lightning bolt as an action from this weapon. 
The spell save DC is 14. You must take a long rest before you 
can use this ability again. 

You have resistance to lightning damage. You have 
truesight while holding this weapon. 


Upgrades, 23 spirit points: Spell Storing (Level 3 - lightning 
bolt) - 6 spirit points, Elemental Resistance (lightning) - 4 
spirit points, Focus - 2 spirit points, Truesight - 10 spirit 
points, and Unflinching - 1 spirit point. 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


at a glance, the cost, time requirement, and other pertinent 
information required for crafting, depending on the number of 
Spirit Points the crafted weapon has allocated. 


Crafting Summary 
Spirit Points Cost Time Rarity Upgrades Available Attunement 


2 400 gp 4 days Uncommon Tier If Limited Upgrade 


4 800 gp 8 days Uncommon Tier If Limited Upgrade 


6 3,000 gp 18 days Rare Tier1&2 If Limited Upgrade 


o0 


4,000 gp 24 days Rare Tieri &2 If Limited Upgrade 


fo] 


50,000 gp 40 days Very Rare Tier1,2,&3 Yes 


K 


60,000 gp 48 days Very Rare Tier 1, 2, & 3 Yes 


4 70,000 gp 56 days Very Rare Tier 1, 2, &3 Yes 


a 


320,000 gp 16 weeks Legendary All Yes 


& 


360,000 gp 18 weeks Legendary All Yes 


20 400,000 gp 20 weeks Legendary All Yes 


22 440,000 gp 22 weeks Legendary All Yes 


24 480,000 gp 24 weeks Legendary All Yes 


ANCESTRAL WEAPONS 


Eo LS 
_ DUNGEON/\/\|ROLLERS 
À NY” 


MBESIN 
“SILVER 


N 


> 


j 


ZN 


Welcome to Waterdeep! You enter a story of deceit, greed, and z 
demons. A struggle for power leads a poor man to make an unwise 
deal with a devil. p 


This adventure features a high society ball, a chase through the 
streets of Waterdeep, and a race against time to save the city itself. 


The Treasures of Series brings new magical items to the Forgotten 
realms. 


e Treasures of the Underdark features 40 magic items from 
the Underdark inspired by Drow, Duergar and the other 
denizens below. 

e Treasures of the Mad Mage contains 50 magic items found 
within the Undermountain. Drawing inspiration from the 
crazed mind of Halaster and the warped inhabitants of the 2 
Undermountain. F 


Deities grant Quest Spells to their most devout followers, 
allowing these paragons of faith to carry out their will, performing 
miraculous feats of the divine. 


These spells can change the very makeup of the world, and turn 
the tide of impossible encounters. These powerful gifts come 
with a cost, but can offer specific effects to overcome unique 
challenges. 


FB.ME/DUNGEONROLLERS 
@DUNGEONROLLERS 


DNDDUNGEONROLLERS@GMAIL.COM — G + 
s 


